                    CURRENT POPULATION SURVEY, November 2013
                          Civic Engagement Supplement FILE

                                TECHNICAL DOCUMENTATION
                                        CPS—13


 This file documentation consists of the following materials:

            Attachment 1                Abstract
            Attachment 2                Overview - Current Population Survey
            Attachment 3                Overview – November 2013
                                         Civic Engagement Use Supplement
            Attachment 4                Glossary
            Attachment 5                How to Use the Record Layout
            Attachment 6                Basic CPS Record Layout
            Attachment 7                Current Population Survey, November 2013
                                         Civic Engagement Use Supplement Record Layout
            Attachment 8                Current Population Survey, November 2013
                                         Civic Engagement Use Supplement Questionnaire
            Attachment 9                Industry Classification Codes
            Attachment 10               Occupation Classification Codes
            Attachment 11               Specific Metropolitan Identifiers
            Attachment 12               Topcoding of Usual Hourly Earnings
            Attachment 13               Tallies of Unweighted Counts
            Attachment 14               Countries and Areas of the World
            Attachment 15               Allocation Flags
            Attachment 16               Source and Accuracy of the November 2013
                                         Civic Engagement Use Supplement Data
            Attachment 17               User Notes


                                                NOTE

Questions about accompanying documentation should be directed to Center for New Media and
Promotions Division, Promotions Branch, Bureau of the Census, Washington, D.C. 20233.
Phone: (301) 763-4400.
Questions about the CD-ROM should be directed to Marketing Services Office, Customer Services
Center, Bureau of the Census, Washington, D.C. 20233. Phone: (301) 763-INFO (4636).

Questions about the subject matter should be directed to the staff in the Current Population Surveys
Branch, Demographic Surveys Division, Bureau of the Census, Washington, D.C. 20233. Phone: (301)
763-3806.
                                           ATTACHMENT 1
                                                ABSTRACT

                        Current Population Survey, November 2013: Civic Engagement
                       Supplement [machine-readable data file] conducted by the Bureau of
                       the Census for the Bureau of Labor Statistics. - Washington: Bureau of
                       the Census [producer and distributor], 2014.


Type of File:

Microdata; unit of observation is individuals within housing units.

Universe Description:

The universe consists of all persons in the civilian noninstitutional population of the United States
living in households. The probability sample selected to represent the universe consists of
approximately 54,000 households.

Subject-Matter Description:

Data are provided on labor force activity for the week prior to the survey. Comprehensive data are
available on the employment status, occupation, and industry of persons 15 years old and over.
Also shown are personal characteristics such as age, sex, race, marital status, veteran status,
household relationship, educational background, and Hispanic origin.

The Civic Engagement questions were asked of persons 18 years of age or older in outgoing rotation
households. The data offer such information as: level of participation in organized groups, extent of
political action and knowledge, extent of connections with other community members, and how often
individuals get news and information from various media sources.

Geographic Coverage:

States, regions and divisions are identified in their entirety. Within confidentiality restrictions;
indicators are provided for 278 selected core-based statistical areas (CBSA), 30 selected combined
statistical areas (CSA), 217 counties, and 76 principal cities in multi-principal city core-based
statistical areas or combined statistical areas. Also within confidentiality restrictions, indicators are
provided for metropolitan/non-metropolitan, principal city/balance metropolitan, and CBSA size.

Technical Description:

File Structure: Rectangular.
File Size: 150,067 logical records; 1012 character logical record length.
File Sort Sequence: State rank by CMSA/MSA rank by household identification number by line
number.
                                                      1-1
Reference Materials:

Current Population Survey, November 2013: Civic Engagement Supplement Technical Documentation.
Documentation contains this abstract, questionnaire facsimiles, and record layouts of the file. One copy
accompanies each file order. Additional copies are available from Marketing Services Office,
Customer Services Center, Bureau of the Census, Washington, DC 20233.

Bureau of the Census. The Current Population Survey Design and Methodology (Technical Paper 66)
describes in detail the sample design and survey procedures used as well as accuracy of estimates and
sampling errors. Reference copies should be available from most public libraries or Federal
Depository Libraries.

For information about the Current Population Survey and other Census Bureau data products, be sure to
visit our online Question & Answer Center on the Census Bureau’s home page at
http://www.census.gov/ where you can search our knowledge base and submit questions.

File Availability:

You can download the file from our FTP site at http://thedataweb.rm.census.gov/ftp/cps_ftp.html




                                                   1-2
                                                ATTACHMENT 2

                                                    OVERVIEW

                                           Current Population Survey

Introduction

The Current Population Survey (CPS) is the source of the official government statistics on employment and
unemployment. The CPS has been conducted monthly for over 50 years. Currently, we obtain interviews from
about 56,000 households monthly, scientifically selected on the basis of area of residence to represent the nation as
a whole, individual states, and other specified areas. Each household is interviewed once a month for four
consecutive months one year, and again for the corresponding time period a year later. This technique enables us to
obtain reliable month-to-month and year-to-year comparisons at a reasonable cost while minimizing the
inconvenience to any one household.

Although the main purpose of the survey is to collect information on the employment situation, a very important
secondary purpose is to collect information on demographic characteristics such as age, sex, race, marital status,
educational attainment, family relationship, occupation, and industry. From time to time, additional questions are
included on health, education, income, and previous work experience. The statistics resulting from these questions
serve to update similar information collected once every 10 years through the decennial census, and are used by
government policymakers and legislators as important indicators of our nation's economic situation and for
planning and evaluating many government programs.

The CPS provides current estimates of the economic status and activities of the population of the United States.
Because it is not possible to develop one or two overall figures (such as the number of unemployed) that would
adequately describe the whole complex of labor market phenomena, the CPS is designed to provide a large amount
of detailed and supplementary data. Such data are made available to meet a wide variety of needs on the part of
users of labor market information.

Thus, the CPS is the only source of monthly estimates of total employment (both farm and nonfarm); nonfarm self-
employed persons, domestics, and unpaid helpers in nonfarm family enterprises; wage and salaried employees; and,
finally, estimates of total unemployment.

It provides the only available distribution of workers by the number of hours worked (as distinguished from
aggregate or average hours for an industry), permitting separate analyses of part-time workers, workers on
overtime, etc. The survey is also the only comprehensive current source of information on the occupation of
workers and the industries in which they work. Information is available from the survey not only for persons
currently in the labor force but also for those who are outside the labor force. The characteristics of such persons -
whether married women with or without young children, disabled persons, students, older retired workers, etc., can
be determined. Information on their current desire for work, their past work experience, and their intentions as to
job seeking are also available.

For a more detailed discussion about the basic labor force data gathered on a monthly basis in the CPS survey, see
"Explanatory Notes and Estimates of Error" in any recent issue of the Employment and Earnings, a Bureau of Labor
Statistics periodical. This source is referred to on the next page.




                                                          2-1
CPS Sample Design

The current CPS sample is selected based on 2000 census information. The first stage of the 2000 sample design
created 2,025 geographic areas called primary sampling units (PSUs) in the entire United States. These PSUs were
grouped into strata within each state. Some of these PSUs formed strata by themselves and were in sample with
certainty, which is referred to as self-representing. Of the remaining nonself-representing PSUs, one PSU was
selected from each stratum with the probability of selection proportional to the population of the PSU. A total of
824 PSUs were selected for sampling. The second stage of the sample design selected housing units within these
PSUs.

Approximately 72,000 housing units are assigned for interview each month, of which about 60,000 are occupied
and thus eligible for interview. The remainder are units found to be destroyed, vacant, converted to nonresidential
use, containing persons whose usual place of residence is elsewhere, or ineligible for other reasons. Of the 60,000
occupied housing units, approximately 7 percent are not interviewed in a given month due to temporary absence
(vacation, etc.), the residents are not found at home after repeated attempts, inability of persons contacted to
respond, unavailability for other reasons, and refusals to cooperate. The interviewed households contain
approximately 108,000 persons 15 years old and over, approximately 27,000 children 0-14 years old, and about
450 Armed Forces members living with civilians either on or off base within these households. A more precise
explanation regarding the CPS sample design is provided in "Explanatory Notes and Estimates of Error:
Household Data - Sampling" in any issue of Employment and Earnings.

Relationship of Current Population Survey Files to Publications

Each month, a significant amount of information about the labor force is published by the Bureau of Labor
Statistics in the Employment and Earnings and Monthly Labor Review reports.

As mentioned previously, the CPS also serves as a vehicle for supplemental inquiries on subjects other than
employment, which are periodically added to the questionnaire. From the basic and supplemental data, the Bureau
of the Census issues three series of publications under the general title Current Population Reports:

        P-20 Population Characteristics
        P-23 Special Studies
        P-60 Consumer Income

All Current Population Reports, including the other series for population estimates and projections and special
censuses, may be obtained by subscription from the U.S. Government Printing Office at 202-783-3238.
Subscriptions are available as follows: Population Characteristics, Special Studies, and Consumer Income series
(P-20, P-23, P-60) combined, $101 per year (sold as a package only); Population Estimates and Projections, (P-25),
$27 per year. Single issues may be ordered separately; ordering information and prices are provided in the Bureau
of the Census Catalog and Guide, the Monthly Product Announcement (MPA), and in Census and You. Selected
reports also may be accessed on the INTERNET at http://www.census.gov/prod/www/subject.html#pop

Geographic Limitations

The CPS sample was selected so that specific reliability criteria were met nationally, for each of the 50 States and
for the District of Columbia. Since 1985, these reliability criteria have been maintained through periodic additions
and deletions in the State samples. Estimates formed for geographic areas identified on the microdata file which are
smaller than states are not as reliable.




                                                        2-2
Weights

Under the estimating methods used in the CPS, all of the results for a given month become available simultaneously
and are based on returns for the entire panel of respondents. The CPS estimation procedure involves weighting the
data from each sample person. The base weight, which is the inverse of the probability of the person being in the
sample, is a rough measure of the number of actual persons that the sample person represents. Almost all sample
persons in the same state have the same base weight, but the weights across states are different. Selection
probabilities may also differ for some sample areas due to field subsampling, which is done when areas selected for
the sample contain many more households than expected. The base weights are then adjusted for noninterview, and
the ratio estimation procedure is applied.

    1.   Noninterview adjustment. The weights for all interviewed households are adjusted to the extent needed
         to account for occupied sample households for which no information was obtained because of absence,
         impassable roads, refusals, or unavailability of the respondent for other reasons. This noninterview
         adjustment is made separately for clusters of similar sample areas that are usually, but not necessarily,
         contained within a state. Similarity of sample areas is based on Core-Based Statistical Area (CBSA) status
         and size. Within each cluster, there is a further breakdown by residence. Each CBSA cluster is split by
         "principal city" and "balance of the CBSA." The proportion of occupied sample households not
         interviewed fluctuates around 8 percent depending on weather, vacations, etc.

    2.   Ratio estimates. The distribution of the population selected for the sample may differ somewhat, by
         chance, from that of the population as a whole in such characteristics as age, race, sex, and state of
         residence. Because these characteristics are closely correlated with labor force participation and other
         principal measurements made from the sample, the survey estimates can be substantially improved when
         weighted appropriately by the known distribution of these population characteristics. This is accomplished
         through two stages of ratio adjustment as follows:

         a. First-stage ratio estimate. The purpose of the first-stage ratio adjustment is to reduce the contribution
            to variance that results from selecting a sample of PSUs rather than drawing sample households from
            every PSU in the nation. This adjustment is made to the CPS weights in two race cells: black and
            nonblack; it is applied only to PSUs that are nonself-representing and for those states that have a
            substantial number of black households. The procedure corrects for differences that existed in each
            state cell at the time of the 2000 census between 1) the race distribution of the population in sample
            PSUs and 2) the race distribution of all PSUs (both 1 and 2 exclude self-representing PSUs).

         b. Second-stage ratio estimate. This procedure substantially reduces the variability of estimates and
            corrects, to some extent, for CPS undercoverage. The CPS sample weights are adjusted to ensure that
            sample-based estimates of population match independent population controls. Three sets of controls
            are used:

             1)   51 state controls of the civilian noninstitutional population 16 years of age and older

             2)   national civilian noninstitutional population controls for 14 hispanic and 5 nonhispanic age-sex
                  categories

             3)   national civilian noninstitutional population controls for 66 white, 42 black, and 10 "other" age-
                  sex categories




                                                         2-3
                 The independent population controls are prepared by projecting forward the resident population as
                 enumerated on April 1, 2000. The projections are derived by updating demographic census data
                 with information from a variety of other data sources that account for births, deaths, and net
                 migration. Estimated numbers of resident Armed Forces personnel and institutionalized persons
                 reduce the resident population to the civilian noninstitutional population. Estimates of net census
                 undercount, determined from the Post Enumeration Survey, are added to the population
                 projections. Prior to January 2003, the projections were based on earlier censuses, and prior to
                 January 1994, there was no correction for census undercount. A summary of the current
                 procedures used to make population projections is given in “Revisions in the Current Population
                 Survey Effective January 2003" in the January 2003 issue of Employment and Earnings..

Comparability of CPS From Microdata Files With Published Sources

Although total estimates of the population will equal published estimates, labor force estimates produced from a
microdata file will not be directly comparable or identical with the published nonseasonally adjusted labor force
data. The major reason for this is due to a final estimation procedure incorporated into the production of the
published nonseasonally adjusted data. This procedure, known as a composite estimator, is a weighted average of
two estimates for the current month for any particular item. The first estimate is the two-stage ratio estimate that
includes all the estimation steps given above. The second estimate consists of the composite estimate for the
preceding month to which has been added an estimate of the change from the preceding month, based on that part
of the sample which is common to the two months (about 75 percent). This procedure is primarily used to increase
the reliability of estimates of month-to-month change, although other reliability gains are also realized. As noted
above, the composite estimation procedure does not affect estimates of the total population.

Another factor also inhibits microdata comparison with published labor force data. This is the seasonal adjustment
that is applied to many published statistics. This adjustment is used to adjust for normal seasonal variations to help
distinguish the underlying economic situation in month-to-month changes.

Shown below are data from January and July 1993 which demonstrate how estimates compiled using the final
weights from the microdata file may differ from the published composited estimates, with and without seasonal
adjustment. Note that the composite estimation procedure was not used for estimates published from January 1994
to May 1994. For a further description of both the composite estimator and seasonal adjustment, see "Explanatory
Notes and Estimates of Error: Household Data - Estimating Methods (Composite Estimation Procedure)" and
"Seasonal Adjustment" in any issue of Employment and Earnings.




                                                         2-4
Comparison of CPS Estimates from Microdata Files with Published Sources


                                     Civilian              Civilian                                                             Not in
                           Noninstitutional                   Labor                                                             Labor
                                  Population                  Force             Employed           Unemployed                    Force
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
January 1993
Data (000's)

Final Weights                      192,644                 126,115               116,113               10,002                  66,529

Composited
(Not Seasonally
Adjusted)                          192,644                 126,034               116,123                 9,911                 66,610

Composited
(Seasonally
Adjusted)                          192,644                 127,083               118,071                 9,013                 65,561

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
July 1993
Data (000's)

Final Weights                      193,633                 130,399               121,450                 8,949                 63,234

Composited
(Not Seasonally
Adjusted)                          193,633                 130,324               121,323                 9,002                 63,309

Composited
(Seasonally
Adjusted)                           193,633                128,070               119,301                 8,769                 65,563
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                                                   2-5
                                          ATTACHMENT 3

                                             OVERVIEW

                         November 2013 Civic Engagement Supplement

General

Census Bureau staff conducted the November 2013 Civic Engagement Survey as a supplement to that
month's Current Population Survey (CPS). The CPS is a monthly labor force survey in which
interviews are conducted in approximately 54,000 households across the country. Attachment 8
contains a copy of the supplement questions asked of civilian household members 18 years old or
older, in month-in-sample 3,4,7,8 households.

Attachment 2 comprises a description of the CPS entitled "Overview--Current Population
Survey." A description of the November 2013 Civic Engagement Supplement follows.

Data Collection

Census Bureau staff conducted interviews during the period of November 17-23, 2013. Self or proxy
responses were allowed for this supplement, that is, a single respondent could provide answers for
themselves or provide answers for all eligible households members, provided the respondent
him/herself was a household member 18 years of age or older.

The supplement questions related to people’s involvement in their communities and communication
with their friends and family. The questions sought to measure the level of civic engagement of
individuals in the United States. Civic engagement is a broad concept that can be defined by one’s level
of or involvement in: empowerment and political action; groups and networks; trust and solidarity;
information and communication; and social cohesion and inclusion.

Interviewers received a 1 1/2 hour self-study that contained exercises on the basic labor force
questions, item-by-item instructions for the supplement, supplement exercises and practice
interviews.

Data Processing

The data processing involved a consistency edit of all supplement items. The consistency edit mainly
ensured that the entries within an individual record followed the correct skip patterns, and items with
off-path entries were blanked whenever appropriate.

A supplement non-response weight variable (PWNRWGT) and a self-response weight variable
(PWSRWGT), reside on the data file. These variables should be used when constructing estimates for
appropriate supplement cases.

The values for each variable are defined in the supplement record layout (Attachment 7).



                                                  3-1
November 2013 Civic Engagement Computer File

The CPS Labor Force Data. The November 2013 CPS file contains 150,067 records. The first 950
characters contain the labor force and disability data for each record. Attachment 7 contains the CPS
Basic Items Record Layout, which includes the variable name, character size, location on the record,
universe, and the values of each basic CPS variable included on the file.

       The variable PRPERTYP (located in positions 161-162 on the CPS Basic Items Record
       Layout) determines the type of person as follows:

       PRPERTYP

             1 = Child household member (0-14 years old)

             2 = Adult civilian household member (15+ years old)

             3 = Adult Armed Forces household member (15+ years old)

       The variable HRINTSTA (located in positions 57-58 on the CPS Basic Items Record
       Layout) determines the interview status of the household.

       HRINTSTA

             1 = Interview

             2 = Type A Noninterview (These records represent households that were eligible for
                 the November CPS interview but were not interviewed because no one was home,
                 household members were temporarily absent, etc.)

             3 = Type B Noninterview (These records represent sample addresses determined to be
                 ineligible for the CPS by virtue of a temporary situation, such as being vacant,
                 nonresidential, etc. These households could become eligible for a CPS interview.)

             4 = Type C Noninterview (These records represent sample addresses determined to be
                 ineligible for CPS by virtue of a permanent change such as demolished, condemned,
                 etc. These addresses will not be visited again for CPS interviews.)




                                                  3-2
       By combining the values of PRPERTYP (1-3) and HRINTSTA (2-4), the number of
       records can be determined.

              The values of PRPERTYP are:

                                                                Unweighted Counts

                                1 = Child                              25,218
                                2 = Adult Civilian, 15+               105,416
                                3 = Adult, Armed Forces                   467

              The values of HRINTSTA are:

                                2 = Type A Noninterview                  6,304
                                3 = Type B Noninterview                 11,937
                                4 = Type C Noninterview                    725

November 2013 CPS Civic Engagement Supplement Data. The November 2013 Civic
Engagement supplement data are in locations 951- 1012. (See Attachment 7)

Tallying the November 2013 Civic Engagement Supplement File. The November 2013 Civic
Engagement supplement universe represented month-in-sample 3,4,7,8 households comprised of all
civilian persons 18 years of age or older.

Unweighted Counts. Attachment 13 is a tally listing of unweighted counts from selected
supplement items. Use these totals to ensure that the file is being accessed properly.

Data Contact. For questions regarding the November 2013 Civic Engagement data, call the CPS
staff at the Census Bureau on (301) 763-3806.




                                                3-3
                                                 ATTACHMENT 4

                                                    GLOSSARY

                                           Current Population Survey


Age Age classification is based on the age of the person at his/her last birthday. The adult universe (i.e.,
population of marriageable age) is comprised of persons 15 years and over for CPS labor force data.

Allocation Flag Each edited item has a corresponding allocation flag indicating the nature of the edit. See the
attachment on allocation flags for more information. The second character of the item name is always "X".

Armed Forces Demographic information for Armed Forces members (enumerated in off-base housing or on-base
with their families) is included on the CPS data files. No labor force information is collected of Armed Forces
members in any month. In March, supplemental data on income are included for Armed Forces members. This is
the only month that non-demographic information is included for Armed Forces members.

Civilian Labor Force (See Labor Force.)

Class of Worker This refers to the broad classification of the person's employer. These broad classifications for
current jobs are:

        1) Federal government
        2) State government
        3) Local government
        4) Private industry (including self-employed, incorporated)
        5) Self-employed (not incorporated)
        6) Working without pay

Domain The domain for an item is a list or range of its possible values. Note that all unedited items have possible
values of -1 (blank), -2 (don't know), and -3 (refused). Since all items have these possible values, they are not
shown as valid entries for each item.

Duration of Unemployment Duration of unemployment represents the length of time (through the current survey
week) during which persons classified as unemployed are continuously looking for work. For persons on layoff,
duration of unemployment represents the number of full weeks since the termination of their most recent
employment. A period of two weeks or more during which a person is employed or ceased looking for work is
considered to break the continuity of the present period of seeking work.

Earners, Number of The file includes all persons 15 years old and over in the household with $1 or more in wages
and salaries, or $1 or more of a loss in net income from farm or nonfarm self-employment during the preceding
year.

Edited item An edited item is allocated or imputed by the processing system. In most cases this means allocating
a value where the unedited item contains a value of blank, "don't know", or "refused". The second character of the
item name is always "E".

An edited version of an item exists only if that item is processed through the edits. If the edits never deal with a
particular item, then that item only has an unedited version.


                                                          4-1
Since the instrument enforces skip patterns and consistency between many items, the edits are left mainly with the
job of allocating missing values. Also, since an interviewer is allowed to "back up" in the interview, there may be
"off-path" items filled in the unedited data. The edits also blank these off-path items if an edited version of the
items exists.

Education (See Level of School Completed.)

Employed (See Labor Force.)

Family A family is a group of two persons or more (one of whom is the householder) residing together and related
by birth, marriage, or adoption. All such persons (including related subfamily members) are considered as
members of one family. Beginning with the 1980 CPS, unrelated subfamilies (referred to in the past as secondary
families) are no longer included in the count of families, nor are the members of unrelated subfamilies included in
the count of family members.

Family Household A family household is a household maintained by a family (as defined above), and may include
among the household members any unrelated persons (unrelated subfamily members and/or secondary individuals)
who may be residing there. The number of family households is equal to the number of families. The count of
family household members differs from the count of family members, however, in that the family household
members include all persons living in the household, whereas family members include only the householder and
his/her relatives. (See the definition of Family).

Family Weight This weight is used only for tallying family characteristics. In March, the weight on the family
record is the March supplement weight of the householder or reference person.

Final Weight Used in tabulating labor force items in all months, including March. The final weight is controlled
to independent estimates for:

        1) States
        2) Origin, Sex, and Age
        3) Age, Race, and Sex

This weight should not be used when tabulating March supplement data.

Full-Time Worker Persons on full-time schedules include persons working 35 hours or more, persons who worked
1-34 hours for noneconomic reasons (e.g., illness) and usually work full-time, and persons "with a job but not at
work" who usually work full-time.

Group Quarters Group quarters are noninstitutional living arrangements for groups not living in conventional
housing units or groups living in housing units containing nine or more persons unrelated to the person in charge.

Head Versus Householder Beginning with the March 1980 CPS, the Bureau of the Census discontinued the use
of the terms "head of household" and "head of family." Instead, the terms "householder" and "family householder"
are used.

Highest Grade of School Attended (See Level of School Completed.)

Hispanic/Non-Hispanic Origin A person’s Hispanic/Non-Hispanic status in this file is determined on the basis of
a question that simply asks “(Is/Are) (Name/you) Hispanic?”




                                                        4-2
Hours of Work Hours of work statistics relate to the actual number of hours worked during the survey week. For
example, a person who normally works 40 hours a week but who is off on the Veterans Day holiday is reported as
working 32 hours even though he is paid for the holiday.

For persons working in more than one job, the figures related to the number of hours worked in all jobs during the
week. However, all the hours are credited to the major job.

Household A household consists of all the persons who occupy a house, an apartment, or other group of rooms, or
a room, which constitutes a housing unit. A group of rooms or a single room is regarded as a housing unit when it
is occupied as separate living quarters; that is, when the occupants do not live with any other person in the
structure, and when there is direct access from the outside or through a common hall. The count of households
excludes persons living in group quarters, such as military barracks and institutions. Inmates of institutions (mental
hospitals, rest homes, correctional institutions, etc.) are not included in the survey.

Household Weight The household weight is used for tallying household characteristics. In March, the household
weight is the March Supplement weight of the householder.

Householder The householder refers to the person (or one of the persons) in whose name the housing unit is
owned or rented (maintained) or, if there is no such person, any adult member, excluding roomers, boarders, or paid
employees. If the house is owned or rented jointly by a married couple, the householder may be either the husband
or the wife. The person designated as the householder is the "reference person" to whom the relationship of all
other household members, if any, is recorded.

Householder With No Other Relatives in Household A householder who has no relatives living in the
household. This is the entry for a person living alone. Another example is the designated householder of an
apartment shared by two or more unrelated individuals.

Householder With Other Relatives (Including Spouse) in Household The person designated as householder if
he/she has one or more relatives (including spouse) living in the household.

Industry, Occupation, and Class of Worker (I&O) Current Job (basic data) For the employed, current job is
the job held in the reference week (the week before the survey). Persons with two or more jobs are classified in the
job at which they worked the most hours during the reference week. The unemployed are classified according to
their latest full-time job lasting two or more weeks or by the job (either full-time or part-time). The I & O questions
are also asked of persons not in the labor force who are in the fourth and eighth months in sample and who have
worked in the last five years.

Job Seekers All unemployed persons who made specific efforts to find a job sometime during the 4-week period
preceding the survey week.

Longitudinal Weight Used for gross flows analysis. Only found on adult records matched from month to month.

PEMLR (Major Labor Force Recode) This classification is available for each civilian 15 years old and over
according to his/her responses to the monthly (basic) labor force items.




                                                         4-3
Labor Force Persons are classified as in the labor force if they are employed, unemployed, or in the Armed Forces
during the survey week. The "civilian labor force" includes all civilians classified as employed or unemployed.
The file includes labor force data for civilians age 15 and over. However, the official definition of the civilian labor
force is age 16 and over.

    1. Employed

           Employed persons comprise (1) all civilians who, during the survey week, do any work at all as paid
           employees or in their own business or profession, or on their own farm, or who work 15 hours or more
           as unpaid workers on a farm in a business operated by a member of the family; and (2) all those who
           have jobs but who are not working because of illness, bad weather, vacation, or labor-management
           dispute, or because they are taking time off for personal reasons, whether or not they are seeking other
           jobs. These persons would have a Monthly Labor Force Recode (MLR) of 1 or 2 respectively in
           characters 180-181 of the person record which designates "at work" and "with a job, but not at work."
           Each employed person is counted only once. Those persons who held more than one job are counted in
           the job at which they worked the greatest number of hours during the survey week. If they worked an
           equal number of hours at more than one job, they are counted at the job they held the longest.

    2. Unemployed

           Unemployed persons are those civilians who, during the survey week, have no employment but are
           available for work, and (1) have engaged in any specific job seeking activity within the past 4 weeks
           such as registering at a public or private employment office, meeting with prospective employers,
           checking with friends or relatives, placing or answering advertisements, writing letters of application, or
           being on a union or professional register; (2) are waiting to be called back to a job from which they had
           been laid off; or (3) are waiting to report to a new wage or salary job within 30 days. These persons
           would have an MLR code of 3 or 4 in characters 180-181 of the person record. The unemployed
           includes job leavers, job losers, new job entrants, and job reentrants.

           a.   Job Leavers

                Persons who quit or otherwise terminate their employment voluntarily and immediately begin
                looking for work.

           b.   Job Losers

                Persons whose employment ends involuntarily, who immediately begin looking for work, and
                those persons who are already on layoff.

           c.   New Job Entrants

                Persons who never worked at a full-time job lasting two weeks or longer.

           d.   Job Reentrants

                Persons who previously worked at a full-time job lasting two weeks or longer but are out of the
                labor force prior to beginning to look for work.




                                                          4-4
           Finally, it should be noted that the unemployment rate represents the number of persons unemployed as
           a percent of the civilian labor force 16 years old and over. This measure can also be computed for
           groups within the labor force classified by sex, age, marital status, race, etc. The job loser, job leaver,
           reentrant, and new entrant rates are each calculated as a percent of the civilian labor force 16 years old
           and over; the sum of the rates for the four groups thus equals the total unemployment rate.

    3. Not in Labor Force

           All civilians 15 years old and over who are not classified as employed or unemployed. These persons
           are further classified by major activity: retired, unable to work because of long-term physical or mental
           illness, and other. The "other" group includes, for the most part, students and persons keeping house.
           Persons who report doing unpaid work in a family farm or business for less than 15 hours are also
           classified as not in the labor force.

           For persons not in the labor force, data on previous work experience, intentions to seek work again,
           desire for a job at the time of interview, and reasons for not looking for work are asked only in those
           households that are in the fourth and eighth months of the sample, i.e., the "outgoing" groups, those
           which had been in the sample for three previous months and would not be in for the subsequent month.

           Persons classified as NILF have an MLR code of 5-7 in characters 180-181 of the person record.

Layoff A person who is unemployed but expects to be called back to a specific job. If he/she expects to be called
back within 30 days, it is considered a temporary layoff; otherwise, it is an indefinite layoff.

Level of School Completed/Degree Received These data changed beginning with the January 1992 file. A new
question, "What is the highest level of school ... has completed or the highest degree ... has received?" replaced the
old "Highest grade attended" and "Year completed" questions. The new question provides more accurate data on
the degree status of college students. Educational attainment applies only to progress in "regular" school. Such
schools include graded public, private, and parochial elementary and high schools (both junior and senior high),
colleges, universities, and professional schools, whether day schools or night schools. Thus, regular schooling is
that which may advance a person toward an elementary school certificate or high school diploma, or a college,
university, or professional school degree. Schooling in other than regular schools is counted only if the credits
obtained are regarded as transferable to a school in the regular school system.

Looking for Work A person who is trying to get work or trying to establish a business or profession.

Marital Status The marital status classification identifies four major categories: single (never married), married,
widowed, and divorced. These terms refer to the marital status at the time of enumeration.

The category "married" is further divided into "married, civilian spouse present," "married, Armed Force spouse
present," "married, spouse absent," "married, Armed Force spouse absent," and "separated." A person is classified
as "married, spouse present" if the husband or wife is reported as a member of the household even though he or she
may be temporarily absent on business or on vacation, visiting, in a hospital, etc., at the time of the enumeration.
Persons reported as "separated" included those with legal separations, those living apart with intentions of obtaining
a divorce, and other persons permanently or temporarily estranged from their spouses because of marital discord.

For the purpose of this file, the group "other marital status" includes "widowed and divorced," "separated," and
"other married, spouse absent."

Month-In-Sample The term is defined as the number of times a unit is interviewed. Each unit is interviewed eight
times during the life of the sample.



                                                          4-5
Never Worked A person who has never held a full-time civilian job lasting two consecutive weeks or more.

Nonfamily Householder A nonfamily householder (formerly called a primary individual) is a person maintaining
a household while living alone or with nonrelatives only.

Nonworker A person who does not do any work in the calendar year preceding the survey.

Nonrelative of Householder With No Own Relatives in Household A nonrelative of the householder who has no
relative(s) of his own in the household. This category includes such nonrelatives as a foster child, a ward, a lodger,
a servant, or a hired hand, who has no relatives of his own living with him in the household.

Nonrelative of Householder With Own Relatives (Including Spouse)in Household Any household member who
is not related to the householder but has relatives of his own in the household; for example, a lodger, his spouse,
and their son.

Other Relative of Householder Any relative of the householder other than his spouse or child; for example,
father, mother, grandson, daughter-in-law, etc.

Out Variable An instrument-created item that stores the results of another item.

Own Child A child related by birth, marriage, or adoption to the family householder.

Part-Time, Economic Reasons The item includes slack work, material shortages, repairs to plant or equipment,
start or termination of job during the week, and inability to find full-time work. (See also Full-Time Worker.)

Part-Time, Other Reasons The item includes labor dispute, bad weather, own illness, vacation, demands of home
housework, school, no desire for full-time work, and full-time worker only during peak season.

Part-Time Work Persons who work between 1 and 34 hours are designated as working "part-time" in the current
job held during the reference week. For the March supplement, a person is classified as having worked part-time
during the preceding calendar year if he worked less than 35 hours per week in a majority of the weeks in which he
worked during the year. Conversely, he is classified as having worked full-time if he worked 35 hours or more per
week during a majority of the weeks in which he worked.

Part-Year Work Part-year work is classified as less than 50 weeks' work.

Population Coverage Population coverage includes the civilian population of the United States plus
approximately one million members of the Armed Forces in the United States living off post or with their families
on post but excludes all other members of the Armed Forces. This file excludes inmates of institutions. The labor
force and work experience data are not collected for Armed Forces members.

Processing Recode An item calculated by the processing system from a combination of other items in the
database. The second character of the item name is always "R".

Race The population is divided into six groups on the basis of race: White, Black or African American, American
Indian or Alaska Native, Asian, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, and Other races. The 2011 CPS uses
the Census 2010 question on race that allows for more than one race reporting, but does not include the Census
2010 "Some Other Race" category.

Reentrants Persons who previously worked at a full-time job lasting two weeks or longer, but who are out of the
labor force prior to beginning to look for work.


                                                         4-6
Related Children Related children in a family include own children and all other children in the household who
are related to the householder by birth, marriage, or adoption. For each type of family unit identified in the CPS,
the count of own children under 18 years old is limited to single (never married) children; however, "own children
under 25" and "own children of any age," include all children regardless of marital status. The totals include never-
married children living away from home in college dormitories.

Related Subfamily A related subfamily is a married couple with or without children, or one parent with one or
more own single (never married) children under 18 years old, living in a household and related to, but not
including, the householder or spouse. The most common example of a related subfamily is a young married couple
sharing the home of the husband's or wife's parents. The number of related subfamilies is not included in the
number of families.

School, Major Activity A person who spent most of his time during the survey week attending any kind of public
or private school, including trade or vocational schools in which students receive no compensation in money or
kind.

Secondary Individual A secondary individual is a person in a household or group quarters such as a guest, roomer,
boarder, or resident employee (excluding nonfamily households and inmates of institutions) who is not related to
any other person in the household or group quarters.

Self-Employed Self-employed persons are those who work for profit or fees in their own business, profession or
trade, or operate a farm.

Stretches of Unemployment A continuous stretch is one that is not interrupted by the person getting a job or
leaving the labor market to go to school, to keep house, etc. A period of two weeks or more during which a person
is employed or ceased looking for work is considered to break the continuity of the period of seeking work.

Unable to Work A person is classified as unable to work because of long-term physical or mental illness, lasting
six months or longer.

Unedited item An item that is produced by the computer automated instrument, either collected during the
interview or created by the instrument. The second character of the item name is always "U".

Unemployed (See Labor Force.)

Unpaid Family Workers Unpaid family workers are persons working without pay for 15 hours a week or more on
a farm or in a business operated by a member of the household to whom they are related by birth or marriage.

Unrelated Individuals Unrelated individuals are persons of any age (other than inmates of institutions) who are
not living with any relatives. An unrelated individual may be (1) a nonfamily householder living alone or with
nonrelatives only, (2) a roomer, boarder, or resident employee with no relatives in the household, or (3) a group
quarters member who has no relatives living with him/her. Thus, a widow who occupies her house alone or with
one or more other persons not related to her, a roomer not related to anyone else in the housing unit, a maid living
as a member of her employer's household but with no relatives in the household, and a resident staff member in a
hospital living apart from any relatives are all examples of unrelated individuals.

Unrelated Subfamily An unrelated subfamily is a family that does not include among its members the householder
and relatives of the householder. Members of unrelated subfamilies may include persons such as guests, roomers,
boarders, or resident employees and their relatives living in a household. The number of unrelated subfamily
members is included in the number of household members but is not included in the count of family members.




                                                         4-7
Persons living with relatives in group quarters were formerly considered as members of families. However, the
number of such unrelated subfamilies became so small (37,000 in 1967) that beginning with the data for 1968 (and
beginning with the census data for 1960) the Bureau of the Census includes persons in these unrelated subfamilies
in the count of secondary individuals.

Veteran Status If a person served at any time during the four most recent wartime periods, the codes for all periods
of service are entered. A person can report up to 4 periods of service. The following codes are used:

        0 Children under 15
        1 September 2001 or later
        2 August 1990 to August 2001
        3 May 1975 to July 1990
        4 Vietnam era (Aug 1964 to Apr 1975)
        5 February 1955 to July 1964
        6 Korean War (July 1950 to January 1955)
        7 January 1947 to June 1950
        8 World War II (December 1941 to December 1946)
        9 November 1941 or earlier

Wage and Salary Workers Wage and salary workers receive wages, salary, commission, tips, or pay in kind from
a private employer or from a governmental unit. Also included are persons who are self-employed in an
incorporated business.

Workers (See Labor Force--Employed.)

Work Experience Includes those persons who during the preceding calendar year did any work for pay or profit or
worked without pay on a family-operated farm or business at any time during the year, on a part-time or full-time
basis.

Year-Round Full-Time Worker A year-round full-time worker is one who usually worked 35 hours or more per
week for 50 weeks or more during the preceding calendar year.




                                                        4-8
                                       ATTACHMENT 5

                         HOW TO USE THE RECORD LAYOUT


Data users familiar with the CPS data files in prior years will see many similarities between the
format of this file and those files released before January 1994. As in the past, there are numeric
locations on the file which correspond to each variable. There is only one record layout which
contains the variables for children, adults, and armed forces members. In prior years, each type
of person had a separate record layout.

Item Naming Conventions

     The first character of each variable name is one of the following:

       H - Household item
       G - Geography item
     * P - Person item (includes adult items, child items, and armed forces items)

      * There is no need to distinguish adult, child, and armed forces items in the variable
        names in the new system. The recode PRPERTYP (located in positions 161-162) tells
        you what category the person is in.

     The second character of each variable name is one of the following:

      E -    Edited item
      U -    Unedited item
      X -    Allocation flag (see Attachment 15 for more information)
      W-     Weight
      R -    Recode

    The remaining characters describe the variable.

    For multiple entry items, the file contains a separate variable for each possible response.
     Each item has the same descriptive name but a number is added as the last digit. For
     example, Question 22A allows separate entries for up to 6 job search methods. The item
     names are PELKM1 (this item is edited), PULKM2, (this item is unedited), PULKM3, etc.
     These items are located in positions 296-307 of the record layout.




                                                5-1
                                                 ATTACHMENT 6

                       CPS RECORD LAYOUT FOR BASIC LABOR FORCE ITEMS

                                        STANDARD PUBLIC USE FILES

                                       A1. HOUSEHOLD INFORMATION


**********************************
*    STARTING MAY 2012       *
**********************************

NAME          SIZE              DESCRIPTION                                                 LOCATION



       Additional valid entries for unedited items:
       -1 (blank), -2 (don't know), -3 (refused).



HRHHID           15           HOUSEHOLD IDENTIFIER            (Part 1)                         1- 15

                              EDITED UNIVERSE:
                              ALL HHLD's IN SAMPLE

                              Part 1. See Characters 71-75 for Part 2 of the Household Identifier.
                              Use Part 1 only for matching backward in time and use in combination
                              with Part 2 for matching forward in time.

HRMONTH            2          MONTH OF INTERVIEW                                               16-17

                              EDITED UNIVERSE:
                              ALL HHLDs IN SAMPLE

                              VALID ENTRIES

                              01    MIN VALUE
                              12    MAX VALUE

HRYEAR4            4          YEAR OF INTERVIEW                                                18-21

                              EDITED UNIVERSE:
                              ALL HHLDs IN SAMPLE

                                                        6-1
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                  LOCATION

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1998 MIN VALUE
                  2999MAX VALUE

HURESPLI      2   LINE NUMBER OF THE CURRENT                        22 - 23
                  RESPONDENT

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    MIN VALUE
                  99   MAX VALUE

HUFINAL       3   FINAL OUTCOME CODE                                24 - 26

                  OUTCOME CODES BETWEEN 001 AND 020 ARE FOR CATI.
                  ALL OTHER OUTCOME CODES ARE FOR CAPI.

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  001 FULLY COMPLETE CATI INTERVIEW
                  002 PARTIALLY COMPLETED CATI INTERVIEW
                  003 COMPLETE BUT PERSONAL VISIT REQUESTED NEXT MONTH
                  004 PARTIAL, NOT COMPLETE AT CLOSEOUT
                  005 LABOR FORCE COMPLETE, SUPPLEMENT INCOMPLETE - CATI
                  006 LF COMPLETE, SUPPLEMENT DK ITEMS INCOMPLETE AT
                      CLOSEOUT–ASEC ONLY
                  020 HH OCCUPIED ENTIRELY BY ARMED FORCES MEMBERS
                      OR ALL UNDER 15 YEARS OF AGE
                  201 CAPI COMPLETE
                  202 CALLBACK NEEDED
                  203 SUFFICIENT PARTIAL - PRECLOSEOUT
                  204 SUFFICIENT PARTIAL - AT CLOSEOUT
                  205 LABOR FORCE COMPLETE, - SUPPL. INCOMPLETE - CAPI
                  213 LANGUAGE BARRIER
                  214 UNABLE TO LOCATE
                  216 NO ONE HOME
                  217 TEMPORARILY ABSENT
                  218 REFUSED
                  219 OTHER OCCUPIED - SPECIFY
                  223 ENTIRE HOUSEHOLD ARMED FORCES
                  224 ENTIRE HOUSEHOLD UNDER 15
                  225 TEMP. OCCUPIED W/PERSONS WITH URE
                  226 VACANT REGULAR
                  227 VACANT - STORAGE OF HHLD FURNITURE
                  228 UNFIT, TO BE DEMOLISHED
                  229 UNDER CONSTRUCTION, NOT READY

                                       6-2
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                                        LOCATION


                  230 CONVERTED TO TEMP BUSINESS OR STORAGE
                  231 UNOCCUPIED TENT OR TRAILER SITE
                  232 PERMIT GRANTED - CONSTRUCTION NOT STARTED
                  233 OTHER - SPECIFY
                  240 DEMOLISHED
                  241 HOUSE OR TRAILER MOVED
                  242 OUTSIDE SEGMENT
                  243 CONVERTED TO PERM. BUSINESS OR STORAGE
                  244 MERGED
                  245 CONDEMNED
                  246 BUILT AFTER APRIL 1, 2000
                  247 UNUSED SERIAL NO./LISTING SHEET LINE
                  248 OTHER - SPECIFY
                  256 REMOVED DURING SUB-SAMPLING
                  257 UNIT ALREADY HAD A CHANCE OF SELECTION

HUSPNISH      2   IS SPANISH THE ONLY LANGUAGE SPOKEN                                  27 - 28
                  BY ALL MEMBERS OF THIS HOUSEHOLD
                  WHO ARE 15 YEARS OF AGE OR OLDER?

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    SPANISH ONLY LANGUAGE SPOKEN

HETENURE      2   ARE YOUR LIVING QUARTERS...                                          29 - 30
                  (READ ANSWER CATEGORIES)

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  HRINTSTA = 1 OR HUTYPB = 1-3

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    OWNED OR BEING BOUGHT BY A HH MEMBER
                  2    RENTED FOR CASH
                  3    OCCUPIED WITHOUT PAYMENT OF CASH RENT

                  NOTE: May be missing on the Basic CPS microdata files.
                  This will be updated on later releases of the same month’s data.

HEHOUSUT      2   TYPE OF HOUSING UNIT                                                 31 - 32

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  ALL HHLDs IN SAMPLE




                                              6-3
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                  LOCATION

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    OTHER UNIT
                  1    HOUSE, APARTMENT, FLAT
                  2    HU IN NONTRANSIENT HOTEL, MOTEL, ETC.
                  3    HU PERMANENT IN TRANSIENT HOTEL, MOTEL
                  4    HU IN ROOMING HOUSE
                  5    MOBILE HOME OR TRAILER W/NO PERM. ROOM ADDED
                  6    MOBILE HOME OR TRAILER W/1 OR MORE PERM. ROOMS ADDED
                  7    HU NOT SPECIFIED ABOVE
                  8    QUARTERS NOT HU IN ROOMING OR BRDING HS
                  9    UNIT NOT PERM. IN TRANSIENT HOTL, MOTL
                  10   UNOCCUPIED TENT SITE OR TRLR SITE
                  11   STUDENT QUARTERS IN COLLEGE DORM
                  12   OTHER UNIT NOT SPECIFIED ABOVE

HETELHHD      2   IS THERE A TELEPHONE IN THIS                   33 - 34
                  HOUSE/APARTMENT?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  HRINTSTA = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    YES
                  2    NO

HETELAVL      2   IS THERE A TELEPHONE ELSEWHERE ON              35 - 36
                  WHICH PEOPLE IN THIS HOUSEHOLD CAN
                  BE CONTACTED?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  HETELHHD = 2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    YES
                  2    NO

HEPHONEO      2   IS A TELEPHONE INTERVIEW ACCEPTABLE?           37 - 38

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  HETELHHD = 1 OR HETELAVL = 1




                                      6-4
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                                 LOCATION


                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    YES
                  2    NO

HEFAMINC      2   FAMILY INCOME                                               39 - 40
                  (COMBINED INCOME OF ALL FAMILY MEMBERS
                  DURING THE LAST 12 MONTHS. INCLUDES MONEY
                  FROM JOBS, NET INCOME FROM BUSINESS, FARM
                  OR RENT, PENSIONS, DIVIDENDS, INTEREST,
                  SOCIAL SECURITY PAYMENTS AND ANY OTHER
                  MONEY INCOME RECEIVED BY FAMILY MEMBERS
                  WHO ARE 15 YEARS OF AGE OR OLDER.)

                  Edited beginning January 2010

                  Note: Caution should be used when using this variable since it
                  has an allocation rate of approximately 20 percent.

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    LESS THAN $5,000
                  2    5,000 TO 7,499
                  3    7,500 TO 9,999
                  4    10,000 TO 12,499
                  5    12,500 TO 14,999
                  6    15,000 TO 19,999
                  7    20,000 TO 24,999
                  8    25,000 TO 29,999
                  9    30,000 TO 34,999
                  10   35,000 TO 39,999
                  11   40,000 TO 49,999
                  12   50,000 TO 59,999
                  13   60,000 TO 74,999
                  14   75,000 TO 99,999
                  15   100,000 TO 149,999
                  16   150,000 OR MORE

HUTYPEA       2   TYPE A NONINTERVIEW REASON                                  41 - 42




                                            6-5
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                   LOCATION

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   NO ONE HOME (NOH)
                  2   TEMPORARILY ABSENT (TA)
                  3   REFUSED (REF)
                  4   LANGUAGE BARRIER
                  5   UNABLE TO LOCATE
                  6   OTHER OCCUPIED - SPECIFY

HUTYPB        2   TYPE B NON-INTERVIEW REASON                   43 - 44

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   VACANT REGULAR
                  2   TEMPORARILY OCCUPIED BY PERSONS W/ URE
                  3   VACANT-STORAGE OF HHLD FURNITURE
                  4   UNFIT OR TO BE DEMOLISHED
                  5   UNDER CONSTRUCTION, NOT READY
                  6   CONVERTED TO TEMP BUSINESS OR STORAGE
                  7   UNOCCUPIED TENT SITE OR TRAILER SITE
                  8   PERMIT GRANTED CONSTRUCTION NOT STARTED
                  9   OTHER TYPE B - SPECIFY

HUTYPC        2   TYPE C NON-INTERVIEW REASON                   45 - 46

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   DEMOLISHED
                  2   HOUSE OR TRAILER MOVED
                  3   OUTSIDE SEGMENT
                  4   CONVERTED TO PERM. BUSINESS OR STORAGE
                  5   MERGED
                  6   CONDEMNED
                  8   UNUSED LINE OF LISTING SHEET
                  9   OTHER - SPECIFY

HWHHWGT     10    HOUSEHOLD WEIGHT                            47 - 56
                  (4 IMPLIED DECIMAL PLACES)
                  USED FOR TALLYING HOUSEHOLD CHARACTERISTICS

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  HRINTSTA = 1

HRINTSTA      2   INTERVIEW STATUS                              57 - 58




                                      6-6
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                     LOCATION


                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  ALL HHLDs IN SAMPLE

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    INTERVIEW
                  2    TYPE A NON-INTERVIEW
                  3    TYPE B NON-INTERVIEW
                  4    TYPE C NON-INTERVIEW

HRNUMHOU      2   TOTAL NUMBER OF PERSONS LIVING                  59 - 60
                  IN THE HOUSEHOLD (HOUSEHOLD MEMBERS).

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  ALL HHLDs IN SAMPLE

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    MIN VALUE
                  16   MAX VALUE

HRHTYPE       2   HOUSEHOLD TYPE                                  61 - 62

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  ALL HHLDs IN SAMPLE

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    NON-INTERVIEW HOUSEHOLD
                  1    HUSBAND/WIFE PRIMARY FAMILY (NEITHER AF)
                  2    HUSB/WIFE PRIM. FAMILY (EITHER/BOTH AF)
                  3    UNMARRIED CIVILIAN MALE-PRIM. FAM HHLDER
                  4    UNMARRIED CIV. FEMALE-PRIM FAM HHLDER
                  5    PRIMARY FAMILY HHLDER-RP IN AF, UNMAR.
                  6    CIVILIAN MALE PRIMARY INDIVIDUAL
                  7    CIVILIAN FEMALE PRIMARY INDIVIDUAL
                  8    PRIMARY INDIVIDUAL HHLD-RP IN AF
                  9    GROUP QUARTERS WITH FAMILY
                  10   GROUP QUARTERS WITHOUT FAMILY

HRMIS         2   MONTH-IN-SAMPLE                                 63 – 64

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  ALL HHLDs IN SAMPLE



                                        6-7
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                                       LOCATION

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    MIN VALUE
                  8    MAX VALUE

HUINTTYP      2   TYPE OF INTERVIEW                                                 65 - 66

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    NONINTERVIEW/INDETERMINATE
                  1    PERSONAL
                  2    TELEPHONE

HUPRSCNT      2   NUMBER OF ACTUAL AND                                              67 - 68
                  ATTEMPTED PERSONAL CONTACTS

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    MIN VALUE
                  9    MAX VALUE

HRLONGLK      2   LONGITUDINAL LINK INDICATOR                                       69 - 70

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  ALL HHLDs IN SAMPLE

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    MIS 1 OR REPLACEMENT HH (NO LINK)
                  2    MIS 2-4 OR MIS 6-8
                  3    MIS 5

HRHHID2       5   HOUSEHOLD IDENTIFIER (part 2)                                     71 - 75

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  ALL HHLD's IN SAMPLE

                  Part 1 of this number is found in columns 1-15 of the record.
                  Concatenate this item with Part 1 for matching forward in time.

                  The component parts of this number are as follows:
                  71-72    Numeric component of the sample number (HRSAMPLE)
                  73-74    Serial suffix-converted to numerics (HRSERSUF)
                  75       Household Number (HUHHNUM)




                                             6-8
NAME      SIZE        DESCRIPTION                     LOCATION


FILLER       3                                        76 – 78


HUBUS        2        DOES ANYONE IN THIS HOUSEHOLD   79 - 80
                      HAVE A BUSINESS OR A FARM?

                      VALID ENTRIES

                      1    YES
                      2    NO

HUBUSL1      2        ENTER LINE NUMBER               81 - 82
                      FOR HUBUS = 1

                      VALID ENTRIES

                      01 MIN VALUE
                      99 MAX VALUE
HUBUSL2      2        See BUSL1                       83 - 84

                      VALID ENTRIES

                      1    MIN VALUE
                      99   MAX VALUE

HUBUSL3      2        See BUSL1                       85 - 86

                      VALID ENTRIES

                      1    MIN VALUE
                      99   MAX VALUE

HUBUSL4      2        See BUSL1                       87 - 88

                      VALID ENTRIES

                      1    MIN VALUE
                      99   MAX VALUE

                 A2. GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

GEREG        2        REGION                          89 - 90

                      EDITED UNIVERSE:
                      ALL HHLD's IN SAMPLE


                                             6-9
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                  LOCATION

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    NORTHEAST
                  2    MIDWEST (FORMERLY NORTH CENTRAL)
                  3    SOUTH
                  4    WEST

GESTCEN       2   CENSUS STATE CODE                            91 - 92

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  ALL HHLD's IN SAMPLE

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  11   ME     51   DE          85   NM
                  12   NH     52   MD          86   AZ
                  13   VT     53   DC          87   UT
                  14   MA     54   VA          88   NV
                  15   RI     55   WV          91   WA
                  16   CT     56   NC          92   OR
                  21   NY     57   SC          93   CA
                  22   NJ     58   GA          94   AK
                  23   PA     59   FL          95   HI
                  31   OH     61   KY
                  32   IN     62   TN
                  33   IL     63   AL
                  34   MI     64   MS
                  35   WI     71   AR
                  41   MN     72   LA
                  42   IA     73   OK
                  43   MO     74   TX
                  44   ND     81   MT
                  45   SD     82   ID
                  46   NE     83   WY
                  47   KS     84   CO

GESTFIPS      2   FEDERAL INFORMATION                     93 - 94
                  PROCESSING STANDARDS
                  (FIPS) STATE CODE

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  ALL HHLD's IN SAMPLE




                                        6-10
NAME     SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                   LOCATION


                VALID ENTRIES

                01   AL      30   MT
                02   AK      31   NE
                04   AZ      32   NV
                05   AR      33   NH
                06   CA      34   NJ
                08   CO      35   NM
                09   CT      36   NY
                10   DE      37   NC
                11   DC      38   ND
                12   FL      39   OH
                13   GA      40   OK
                15   HI      41   OR
                16   ID      42   PA
                17   IL      44   RI
                18   IN      45   SC
                19   IA      46   SD
                20   KS      47   TN
                21   KY      48   TX
                22   LA      49   UT
                23   ME      50   VT
                24   MD      51   VA
                25   MA      53   WA
                26   MI      54   WV
                27   MN      55   WI
                28   MS      56   WY
                29   MO

FILLER      1                                                 95 - 95

GTCBSA      5   Metropolitan CBSA FIPS CODE                   96 - 100

                EDITED UNIVERSE:
                ALL HHLD's IN SAMPLE

                VALID ENTRIES

                00000     NOT IDENTIFIED OR NONMETROPOLITAN
                00460     MIN VALUE
                79600     MAX VALUE

                SPECIFIC METROPOLITAN CBSA CODE
                (SEE GEOGRAPHIC ATTACHMENT)



                                       6-11
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                  LOCATION

GTCO          3   FIPS COUNTY CODE                             101 - 103

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  ALL HHLD's IN SAMPLE

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  000 NOT IDENTIFIED
                  001-810 SPECIFIC COUNTY CODE (SEE ATTACHMENT 13)
                      NOTE: THIS CODE MUST BE USED IN COMBINATION
                       WITH A STATE CODE (GESTFIPS or GESTCEN) IN
                       ORDER TO UNIQUELY IDENTIFY A COUNTY. ALSO,
                       MOST COUNTIES ARE NOT IDENTIFIED.

GTCBSAST     1    PRINCIPAL CITY/BALANCE STATUS                104 - 104

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  ALL HHLD's IN SAMPLE

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   PRINCIPAL CITY
                  2   BALANCE
                  3   NONMETROPOLITAN
                  4   NOT IDENTIFIED

GTMETSTA     1    METROPOLITAN STATUS                          105 - 105

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  ALL HHLD's IN SAMPLE

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   METROPOLITAN
                  2   NONMETROPOLITAN
                  3   NOT IDENTIFIED

GTINDVPC     1    INDIVIDUAL PRINCIPAL CITY                    106 - 106

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  ALL HHLD's IN SAMPLE




                                     6-12
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                     LOCATION


                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0   NOT IDENTIFIED, NONMETROPOLITAN,
                      or NOT A CENTRAL CITY
                  1-7 SPECIFIC PRINCIPAL CITY CODE
                      (SEE GEOGRAPHIC ATTACHMENT )
                      NOTE: WHENEVER POSSIBLE THIS CODE
                      IDENTIFIES SPECIFIC PRINCIPAL CITIES IN
                      A METROPOLITAN AREA THAT HAS MULTIPLE
                      PRINCIPAL CITIES. THIS CODE MUST BE
                      USED IN COMBINATION WITH THE CBSA
                      FIPS CODE (GTCBSA) IN ORDER TO
                      UNIQUELY IDENTIFY A SPECIFIC CITY.

GTCBSASZ      1   Metropolitan Area (CBSA) SIZE                   107 - 107

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  ALL HHLD's IN SAMPLE

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0   NOT IDENTIFIED OR NONMETROPOLITAN
                  2   100,000 - 249,999
                  3   250,000 - 499,999
                  4   500,000 - 999,999
                  5   1,000,000 - 2,499,999
                  6   2,500,000 - 4,999,999
                  7   5,000,000+

GTCSA         3   Consolidated Statistical Area (CSA) FIPS CODE   108-110

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  ALL HHLD's IN SAMPLE

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  000 NOT IDENTIFIED OR NONMETROPOLITAN
                  118 MIN VALUE
                  720 MAX VALUE

                  SPECIFIC CSA CODE (SEE GEOGRAPHIC ATTACHMENT)

FILLER        3                                                   111 - 113



                                           6-13
NAME       SIZE    DESCRIPTION                                    LOCATION

                  A3. PERSONS INFORMATION DEMOGRAPHIC ITEMS

PROLDRRP      2    RELATIONSHIP TO REFERENCE                      114 - 115
                   PERSON (RECODE) Eliminated February 2005

                   EDITED UNIVERSE:
                   PRPERTYP = 1, 2, OR 3

                   VALID ENTRIES

                   01    REF PERS WITH OTHER RELATIVES IN HH
                   02    REF PERS WITH NO OTHER RELATIVES IN HH
                   03    SPOUSE
                   04    CHILD
                   05    GRANDCHILD
                   06    PARENT
                   07    BROTHER/SISTER
                   08    OTHER RELATIVE
                   09    FOSTER CHILD
                   10    NON-REL OF REF PER W/OWN RELS IN HH
                   11    PARTNER/ROOMMATE
                   12    NON-REL OF REF PER W/NO OWN RELS IN HH

                   SEE LOCATION 118 - 119 FOR
                   AN UNCOLLAPSED VERSION

FILLER       2     Starting February 2005                         114 - 115

PUPELIG       2     INTERVIEW STATUS OF EACH PERSON               116 - 117
                    IN THE HOUSEHOLD

                    VALID ENTRIES

                    1    ELIGIBLE FOR INTERVIEW
                    2    LABOR FORCE FULLY COMPLETE
                    3    MISSING LABOR FORCE DATA FOR PERSON
                    4    (NOT USED)
                    5    ASSIGNED IF AGE IS BLANK
                    6    ARMED FORCES MEMBER
                    7    UNDER 15 YEARS OLD
                    8    NOT A HH MEMBER
                    9    DELETED
                    10   DECEASED
                    11   END OF LIST
                    12   AFTER END OF LIST


                                            6-14
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                           LOCATION


PERRP         2   RELATIONSHIP TO REFERENCE             118 - 119
                  PERSON

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRPERTYP = 1, 2, OR 3

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  EXPANDED RELATIONSHIP CATEGORIES
                  01 REFERENCE PERSON W/RELS.
                  02 REFERENCE PERSON W/O RELS.
                  03 SPOUSE
                  04 CHILD
                  05 GRANDCHILD
                  06 PARENT
                  07 BROTHER/SISTER
                  08 OTHER REL. OR REF. PERSON
                  09 FOSTER CHILD
                  10 NONREL. OF REF. PERSON W/RELS.
                  11 NOT USED
                  12 NONREL. OF REF. PERSON W/O RELS.
                  13 UNMARRIED PARTNER W/RELS.
                  14 UNMARRIED PARTNER W/OUT RELS.
                  15 HOUSEMATE/ROOMMATE W/RELS.
                  16 HOUSEMATE/ROOMMATE W/OUT RELS.
                  17 ROOMER/BOARDER W/RELS.
                  18 ROOMER/BOARDER W/OUT RELS.

                  SEE LOCATION 114 - 115 FOR THE
                  COLLAPSED VERSION

PEPARENT      2   LINE NUMBER OF PARENT                 120 - 121

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  EVERY PERSON

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  -1   NO PARENT
                  01   MIN VALUE
                  99   MAX VALUE




                                          6-15
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                                    LOCATION

PRTAGE       2    PERSONS AGE                                                    122 - 123

                  Note: This variable was labeled as PEAGE in prior versions of this documentation
                  even though it contained the public use version of age that was topcoded and underwent
                  further masking steps to protect the confidentiality of individuals in sample.

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRPERTYP = 1, 2, 0R 3

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  00-79     Age in Years
                  80        80-84 Years Old
                  85        85+ Years Old

PRTFAGE      1    TOP CODE FLAG FOR AGE                                          124 - 124

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    NO TOP CODE
                  1    TOP CODED VALUE FOR AGE

PEMARITL     2    MARITAL STATUS                                                 125 - 126

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEAGE >= 15

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    MARRIED - SPOUSE PRESENT
                  2    MARRIED - SPOUSE ABSENT
                  3    WIDOWED
                  4    DIVORCED
                  5    SEPARATED
                  6    NEVER MARRIED

PESPOUSE     2    LINE NUMBER OF SPOUSE                                          127 - 128

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEMARITL = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  -1   NO SPOUSE
                  01   MIN VALUE
                  99   MAX VALUE

                                            6-16
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                          LOCATION


PESEX         2   SEX                                  129 - 130

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRPERTYP = 1, 2, 0R 3

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1     MALE
                  2     FEMALE

PEAFEVER      2   DID YOU EVER SERVE ON ACTIVE         131 - 132
                  DUTY IN THE U.S. ARMED FORCES?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:        PEAGE >=17

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1     YES
                  2     NO

FILLER        2   Starting August 2005                 133 – 134

PEAFNOW       2   ARE YOU NOW IN THE ARMED FORCES      135 - 136

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRPERTYP = 2 or 3

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1     YES
                  2     NO

PEEDUCA       2   HIGHEST LEVEL OF SCHOOL              137 - 138
                  COMPLETED OR DEGREE RECEIVED

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRPERTYP = 2 0R 3

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  31    LESS THAN 1ST GRADE
                  32    1ST, 2ND, 3RD OR 4TH GRADE
                  33    5TH OR 6TH GRADE
                  34    7TH OR 8TH GRADE
                  35    9TH GRADE
                  36    10TH GRADE
                                          6-17
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                    LOCATION

                  37   11TH GRADE
                  38   12TH GRADE NO DIPLOMA
                  39   HIGH SCHOOL GRAD-DIPLOMA OR EQUIV (GED)
                  40   SOME COLLEGE BUT NO DEGREE
                  41   ASSOCIATE DEGREE-OCCUPATIONAL/VOCATIONAL
                  42   ASSOCIATE DEGREE-ACADEMIC PROGRAM
                  43   BACHELOR'S DEGREE (EX: BA, AB, BS)
                  44   MASTER'S DEGREE (EX: MA, MS, MEng, MEd, MSW)
                  45   PROFESSIONAL SCHOOL DEG (EX: MD, DDS, DVM)
                  46   DOCTORATE DEGREE (EX: PhD, EdD)

PTDTRACE     2    RACE                                           139 – 140

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRPERTYP = 1, 2, 0R 3

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  01   White Only
                  02   Black Only
                  03   American Indian, Alaskan Native Only
                  04   Asian Only
                  05   Hawaiian/Pacific Islander Only
                  06   White-Black
                  07   White-AI
                  08   White-Asian
                  09   White-HP
                  10   Black-AI
                  11   Black-Asian
                  12   Black-HP
                  13   AI-Asian
                  14   AI-HP
                  15   Asian-HP
                  16   W-B-AI
                  17   W-B-A
                  18   W-B-HP
                  19   W-AI-A
                  20   W-AI-HP
                  21   W-A-HP
                  22   B-AI-A
                  23   W-B-AI-A
                  24   W-AI-A-HP
                  25   Other 3 Race Combinations
                  26   Other 4 and 5 Race Combinations
                                          6-18
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                     LOCATION


PRDTHSP       2   DETAILED HISPANIC       ORIGIN GROUP       141 - 142

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEHSPNON = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1. Mexican
                  2. Puerto Rican
                  3. Cuban
                  4. Central/South American
                  5. Other Spanish

PUCHINHH      2   CHANGE IN HOUSEHOLD COMPOSITION                 143 – 144

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    PERSON ADDED
                  2    PERSON ADDED - URE
                  3    PERSON UNDELETED
                  4    PERSON DIED
                  5    DELETED FOR REASON OTHER THAN DEATH
                  6    PERSON JOINED ARMED FORCES
                  7    PERSON NO LONGER IN AF
                  9    CHANGE IN DEMOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

FILLER        2                                                   145 - 146

PULINENO      2   PERSON'S LINE NUMBER                            147 - 148

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  01   MIN VALUE
                  99   MAX VALUE

FILLER        2                                                   149 - 150

PRFAMNUM      2   FAMILY NUMBER RECODE                            151 - 152

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRPERTYP = 1, 2, 0R 3




                                          6-19
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                    LOCATION

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  00   NOT A FAMILY MEMBER
                  01   PRIMARY FAMILY MEMBER ONLY
                  02   SUBFAMILY NO. 2 MEMBER
                  03   SUBFAMILY NO. 3 MEMBER
                  04   SUBFAMILY NO. 4 MEMBER
                  05   SUBFAMILY NO. 5 MEMBER
                  06   SUBFAMILY NO. 6 MEMBER
                  07   SUBFAMILY NO. 7 MEMBER
                  08   SUBFAMILY NO. 8 MEMBER
                  09   SUBFAMILY NO. 9 MEMBER
                  10   SUBFAMILY NO. 10 MEMBER
                  11   SUBFAMILY NO. 11 MEMBER
                  12   SUBFAMILY NO. 12 MEMBER
                  13   SUBFAMILY NO. 13 MEMBER
                  14   SUBFAMILY NO. 14 MEMBER
                  15   SUBFAMILY NO. 15 MEMBER
                  16   SUBFAMILY NO. 16 MEMBER
                  17   SUBFAMILY NO. 17 MEMBER
                  18   SUBFAMILY NO. 18 MEMBER
                  19   SUBFAMILY NO. 19 MEMBER

PRFAMREL     2    FAMILY RELATIONSHIP RECODE                     153 - 154

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRPERTYP = 1, 2, 0R 3

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    NOT A FAMILY MEMBER
                  1    REFERENCE PERSON
                  2    SPOUSE
                  3    CHILD
                  4    OTHER RELATIVE (PRIMARY FAMILY & UNREL)

PRFAMTYP     2    FAMILY TYPE RECODE                             155 - 156

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRPERTYP = 1, 2, 0R 3

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    PRIMARY FAMILY
                  2    PRIMARY INDIVIDUAL
                  3    RELATED SUBFAMILY

                                          6-20
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                   LOCATION


                  4   UNRELATED SUBFAMILY
                  5   SECONDARY INDIVIDUAL

PEHSPNON      2   HISPANIC OR NON-HISPANIC                      157 - 158

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRPERTYP = 1, 2, 0R 3

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   HISPANIC
                  2   NON-HIPSANIC

PRMARSTA      2   MARITAL STATUS BASED ON                       159 - 160
                  ARMED FORCES PARTICIPATION

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRPERTYP = 2 0R 3

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   MARRIED, CIVILIAN SPOUSE PRESENT
                  2   MARRIED, ARMED FORCES SPOUSE PRESENT
                  3   MARRIED, SPOUSE ABSENT (EXC. SEPARATED)
                  4   WIDOWED
                  5   DIVORCED
                  6   SEPARATED
                  7   NEVER MARRIED

PRPERTYP      2   TYPE OF PERSON RECORD RECODE                  161 - 162

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  ALL HOUSEHOLD MEMBERS

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   CHILD HOUSEHOLD MEMBER
                  2   ADULT CIVILIAN HOUSEHOLD MEMBER
                  3   ADULT ARMED FORCES HOUSEHOLD MEMBER

PENATVTY      3   COUNTRY OF BIRTH                              163 - 165

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRPERTYP = 1, 2, 0R 3


                                          6-21
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                              LOCATION

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  057 UNITED STATES
                  066 GUAM
                  073 PUERTO RICO
                  078 U. S. VIRGIN ISLANDS
                  096 OTHER U. S. ISLAND AREA
                  100-554 FOREIGN COUNTRY (SEE APPENDIX)
                  555 ELSEWHERE

PEMNTVTY     3    MOTHER'S COUNTRY OF BIRTH                166 - 168

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRPERTYP = 1, 2, 0R 3

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  057 UNITED STATES
                  066 GUAM
                  073 PUERTO RICO
                  078 U. S. VIRGIN ISLANDS
                  096 OTHER U. S. ISLAND AREA
                  100-554 FOREIGN COUNTRY (SEE APPENDIX)
                  555 ELSEWHERE

PEFNTVTY     3    FATHER'S COUNTRY OF BIRTH                169 - 171

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRPERTYP = 1, 2, 0R 3

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  057 UNITED STATES
                  066 GUAM
                  073 PUERTO RICO
                  078 U. S. VIRGIN ISLANDS
                  096 OTHER U. S. ISLAND AREA
                  100-554 FOREIGN COUNTRY (SEE APPENDIX)
                  555 ELSEWHERE

PRCITSHP     2    CITIZENSHIP STATUS                       172 - 173

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRPERTYP = 1, 2, 0R 3



                                          6-22
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                            LOCATION


                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    NATIVE, BORN IN THE UNITED STATES
                  2    NATIVE, BORN IN PUERTO RICO OR OTHER U.S. ISLAND AREAS
                  3    NATIVE, BORN ABROAD OF AMERICAN PARENT OR PARENTS
                  4    FOREIGN BORN, U.S. CITIZEN BY NATURALIZATION
                  5    FOREIGN BORN, NOT A CITIZEN OF THE UNITED STATES

PRCITFLG      2   CITIZENSHIP ALLOCATION FLAG                            174 - 175

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRPERTYP = 1, 2, 0R 3

                  Placed in this position because naming convention is
                  different from all other allocation flags.

PRINUSYR      2   IMMIGRANT'S YEAR OF ENTRY                              176 - 177

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRCITSHP = 2, 3, 4, OR 5

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  -1   NOT IN UNIVERSE (BORN IN U.S.)
                  00   NOT FOREIGN BORN
                  01   BEFORE 1950
                  02   1950-1959
                  03   1960-1964
                  04   1965-1969
                  05   1970-1974
                  06   1975-1979
                  07   1980-1981
                  08   1982-1983
                  09   1984-1985
                  10   1986-1987
                  11   1988-1989
                  12   1990-1991
                  13   1992-1993
                  14   1994-1995
                  15   1996-1997
                  16   1998-1999
                  17   2000-2001
                  18   2002-2003
                  19   2004-2005
                  20   2006-2007
                  21   2008-2010
                                             6-23
NAME       SIZE      DESCRIPTION                              LOCATION

                     STARTING JANUARY 2011

                     21   2008-2011

                     STARTING JANUARY 2012

                     21   2008-2009
                     22   2010-2012

                     STARTING JANUARY 2013

                     22   2010-2013

                  A4. PERSONS INFORMATION LABOR FORCE ITEMS

PUSLFPRX     2       LABOR FORCE INFORMATION COLLECTED        178 - 179
                     BY SELF OR PROXY RESPONSE

                     VALID ENTRIES

                     1    SELF
                     2    PROXY
                     3    BOTH SELF AND PROXY

PEMLR        2       MONTHLY LABOR FORCE RECODE               180 - 181

                     EDITED UNIVERSE:
                     PRPERTYP = 2

                     VALID ENTRIES

                     1    EMPLOYED-AT WORK
                     2    EMPLOYED-ABSENT
                     3    UNEMPLOYED-ON LAYOFF
                     4    UNEMPLOYED-LOOKING
                     5    NOT IN LABOR FORCE-RETIRED
                     6    NOT IN LABOR FORCE-DISABLED
                     7    NOT IN LABOR FORCE-OTHER

PUWK         2       LAST WEEK, DID YOU DO ANY WORK           182 - 183
                     FOR (EITHER) PAY (OR PROFIT)?




                                        6-24
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                              LOCATION


                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO
                  3   RETIRED
                  4   DISABLED
                  5   UNABLE TO WORK

PUBUS1        2   LAST WEEK, DID YOU DO ANY                184 - 185
                  UNPAID WORK IN THE FAMILY
                  BUSINESS OR FARM?

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO

PUBUS2OT      2   DO YOU RECEIVE ANY PAYMENTS              186 - 187
                  OR PROFITS FROM THE BUSINESS?

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO

PUBUSCK1      2   CHECK ITEM 1                             188 - 189
                  FILTER FOR QUESTIONS ON UNPAID WORK

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   GOTO PUBUS1
                  2   GOTO PURETCK1

PUBUSCK2      2   CHECK ITEM 2                             190 - 191
                  SKIPS OWNERS OF FAMILY BUSINES WHO DID
                  NOT WORK LAST WEEK

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   GOTO PUHRUSL1
                  2   GOTO PUBUS2




                                      6-25
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                   LOCATION

PUBUSCK3     2    CHECK ITEM 3                                  192 - 193

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   GOTO PUABSRSN
                  2   GOTO PULAY

PUBUSCK4     2    CHECK ITEM 4                                  194 - 195

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   GOTO PUHRUSL1
                  2   GOTO PUABSPD

PURETOT      2    RETIREMENT STATUS                             196 - 197
                  (LAST MONTH YOU WERE REPORTED TO BE
                  RETIRED, ARE YOU STILL RETIRED THIS MONTH?)

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO
                  3   WAS NOT RETIRED LAST MONTH

PUDIS        2    DISABILITY STATUS                           198 - 199
                  (LAST MONTH YOU WERE REPORTED TO
                  HAVE A DISABILITY.) DOES YOUR DISABILITY
                  CONTINUE TO PREVENT YOU FROM DOING ANY KIND
                  OF WORK FOR THE NEXT 6 MONTHS?

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO
                  3   DID NOT HAVE DISABILITY LAST MONTH

PERET1       2    DO YOU CURRENTLY WANT A JOB, EITHER           200 - 201
                  FULL OR PART-TIME?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEMLR = 5 AND (PURETOT = 1 OR
                  (PUWK = 3 AND PEAGE >= 50) OR
                  (PUABS = 3 AND PEAGE >= 50) OR
                  (PULAY = 3 AND PEAGE >= 50))




                                      6-26
NAME      SIZE   DESCRIPTION                              LOCATION


                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   YES
                 2   NO
                 3   HAS A JOB

PUDIS1       2   DOES YOUR DISABILITY PREVENT YOU FROM    202 - 203
                 ACCEPTING ANY KIND OF WORK DURING
                 THE NEXT SIX MONTHS?

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   YES
                 2   NO

PUDIS2       2   DO YOU HAVE A DISABILITY THAT PREVENTS   204 - 205
                 YOU FROM ACCEPTING ANY KIND OF WORK
                 DURING THE NEXT SIX MONTHS?

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   YES
                 2   NO

PUABSOT      2   LAST WEEK DID YOU HAVE A JOB             206 - 207
                 EITHER FULL OR PART-TIME?

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   YES
                 2   NO
                 3   RETIRED
                 4   DISABLED
                 5   UNABLE TO WORK

PULAY        2   LAST WEEK, WERE YOU ON LAYOFF            208 - 209
                 FROM A JOB?

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   YES
                 2   NO
                 3   RETIRED
                 4   DISABLED
                 5   UNABLE TO WORK



                                   6-27
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                LOCATION

PEABSRSN     2    WHAT IS THE MAIN REASON YOU                210 - 211
                  WERE ABSENT FROM WORK LAST WEEK?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEMLR = 2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    ON LAYOFF
                  2    SLACK WORK/BUSINESS CONDITIONS
                  3    WAITING FOR A NEW JOB TO BEGIN
                  4    VACATION/PERSONAL DAYS
                  5    OWN ILLNESS/INJURY/MEDICAL PROBLEMS
                  6    CHILD CARE PROBLEMS
                  7    OTHER FAMILY/PERSONAL OBLIGATION
                  8    MATERNITY/PATERNITY LEAVE
                  9    LABOR DISPUTE
                  10   WEATHER AFFECTED JOB
                  11   SCHOOL/TRAINING
                  12   CIVIC/MILITARY DUTY
                  13   DOES NOT WORK IN THE BUSINESS
                  14   OTHER (SPECIFY)

PEABSPDO     2    ARE YOU BEING PAID BY YOUR                 212 - 213
                  EMPLOYER FOR ANY OF THE
                  TIME OFF LAST WEEK?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEABSRSN = 4-12, 14

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    YES
                  2    NO

PEMJOT       2    DO YOU HAVE MORE THAN ONE JOB?             214 - 215

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEMLR = 1, 2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    YES
                  2    NO



                                        6-28
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                              LOCATION


PEMJNUM       2   ALTOGETHER, HOW MANY JOBS                216 - 217
                  DID YOU HAVE?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEMJOT = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  2   2 JOBS
                  3   3 JOBS
                  4   4 OR MORE JOBS

PEHRUSL1      2   HOW MANY HOURS PER WEEK DO YOU           218 - 219
                  USUALLY WORK AT YOUR MAIN JOB?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEMJOT = 1 OR 2 AND PEMLR = 1 OR 2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  -4 HOURS VARY
                  0  MIN VALUE
                  99 MAX VALUE

PEHRUSL2      2   HOW MANY HOURS PER WEEK DO YOU           220 - 221
                  USUALLY WORK AT YOUR OTHER (JOB/JOBS)?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEMJOT = 1 AND PEMLR = 1 OR 2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  -4 HOURS VARY
                  0  MIN VALUE
                  99 MAX VALUE

PEHRFTPT      2   DO YOU USUALLY WORK 35 HOURS OR          222 - 223
                  MORE PER WEEK?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEHRUSL1 = -4 OR PEHRUSL2 = -4




                                       6-29
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                  LOCATION

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO
                  3   HOURS VARY

PEHRUSLT     3    SUM OF HRUSL1 AND HRUSL2.                    224 - 226

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEMLR = 1 OR 2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  -4 VARIES
                  0   MIN VALUE
                  198 MAX VALUE

PEHRWANT     2    DO YOU WANT TO WORK A FULL-TIME              227 - 228
                  WORKWEEK OF 35 HOURS OR MORE PER WEEK?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEMLR = 1 AND
                  (PEHRUSLT = 0-34
                  PEHRFTPT = 2)

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO
                  3   REGULAR HOURS ARE FULL-TIME

PEHRRSN1     2    WHAT IS YOUR MAIN REASON FOR                 229 - 230
                  WORKING PART-TIME?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEHRWANT = 1 (PEMLR = 1 AND PEHRUSLT < 35)

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   SLACK WORK/BUSINESS CONDITIONS
                  2   COULD ONLY FIND PART-TIME WORK
                  3   SEASONAL WORK
                  4   CHILD CARE PROBLEMS
                  5   OTHER FAMILY/PERSONAL OBLIGATIONS
                  6   HEALTH/MEDICAL LIMITATIONS
                  7   SCHOOL/TRAINING

                                     6-30
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                      LOCATION


                  8    RETIRED/SOCIAL SECURITY LIMIT ON EARNINGS
                  9    FULL-TIME WORKWEEK IS LESS THAN 35 HRS
                  10   OTHER - SPECIFY

PEHRRSN2      2   WHAT IS THE MAIN REASON YOU DO NOT               231 - 232
                  WANT TO WORK FULL-TIME?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEHRWANT = 2 (PEMLR = 1 AND PEHRUSLT < 35)

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    CHILD CARE PROBLEMS
                  2    OTHER FAMILY/PERSONAL OBLIGATIONS
                  3    HEALTH/MEDICAL LIMITATIONS
                  4    SCHOOL/TRAINING
                  5    RETIRED/SOCIAL SECURITY LIMIT ON EARNINGS
                  6    FULL-TIME WORKWEEK LESS THAN 35 HOURS
                  7    OTHER - SPECIFY

PEHRRSN3      2   WHAT IS THE MAIN REASON YOU WORKED               233 - 234
                  LESS THAN 35 HOURS LAST WEEK?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEHRACTT = 1-34 AND PUHRCK7 NE 1, 2
                  (PEMLR = 1 AND PEHRUSLT = 35+)

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    SLACK WORK/BUSINESS CONDITIONS
                  2    SEASONAL WORK
                  3    JOB STARTED OR ENDED DURING WEEK
                  4    VACATION/PERSONAL DAY
                  5    OWN ILLNESS/INJURY/MEDICAL APPOINTMENT
                  6    HOLIDAY (LEGAL OR RELIGIOUS)
                  7    CHILD CARE PROBLEMS
                  8    OTHER FAMILY/PERSONAL OBLIGATIONS
                  9    LABOR DISPUTE
                  10   WEATHER AFFECTED JOB
                  11   SCHOOL/TRAINING
                  12   CIVIC/MILITARY DUTY
                  13   OTHER REASON




                                      6-31
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                  LOCATION

PUHROFF1     2    LAST WEEK, DID YOU LOSE OR TAKE              235 - 236
                  OFF ANY HOURS FROM YOUR JOB, FOR
                  ANY REASON SUCH AS ILLNESS, SLACK WORK,
                  VACATION, OR HOLIDAY?

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    YES
                  2    NO

PUHROFF2     2    HOW MANY HOURS DID YOU TAKE OFF?             237 - 238

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    MIN VALUE
                  99   MAX VALUE

PUHROT1      2    LAST WEEK, DID YOU WORK ANY                  239 - 240
                  OVERTIME OR EXTRA HOURS (AT YOUR MAIN JOB)
                  THAT YOU DO NOT USUALLY WORK?

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    YES
                  2    NO

PUHROT2      2    HOW MANY ADDITIONAL HOURS                    241 - 242
                  DID YOU WORK?

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    MIN VALUE
                  99   MAX VALUE

PEHRACT1     2    LAST WEEK, HOW MANY HOURS DID YOU            243 - 244
                  ACTUALLY WORK AT YOUR JOB?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEMLR = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    MIN VALUE
                  99   MAX VALUE



                                     6-32
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                  LOCATION


PEHRACT2      2   LAST WEEK, HOW MANY HOURS DID                245 - 246
                  YOU ACTUALLY WORK AT YOUR OTHER (JOB/JOBS)

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEMLR = 1 AND PEMJOT = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0          MIN VALUE
                  99         MAX VALUE

PEHRACTT      3   SUM OF PEHRACT1 AND PEHRACT2.                247 - 249

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEMLR = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0   MIN VALUE
                  198 MAX VALUE

PEHRAVL       2   LAST WEEK, COULD YOU HAVE WORKED             250 - 251
                  FULL-TIME IF THE HOURS HAD BEEN AVAILABLE?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEHRACTT = 1-34 (PEMLR = 1 AND
                  PEHRUSLT < 35 AND PEHRRSN1 = 1, 2, 3)

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    YES
                  2    NO

FILLER        5                                                252 - 256

PUHRCK1       2   CHECK ITEM 1                                 257 - 258

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    GOTO PUHRUSL2
                  2    GOTO PUHRUSLT

PUHRCK2       2   CHECK ITEM 2                                 259 - 260
                  SKIPS PERSONS RESPONDING YES TO
                  HRFTPT OUT OF PT SERIES

                                         6-33
NAME      SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                     LOCATION

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   IF ENTRY OF 1 IN MJ AND
                     ENTRY OF D, R OR V IN HRUSL1
                     AND ENTRY OF D, R, V OR 0-34
                     IN HRUSL2 GOTO HRFTPT
                 2   IF ENTRY OF 1 IN MJ AND ENTRY
                     OF D, R OR V IN HRUSL2 AND
                     ENTRY OF D, R V OR 0-34 IN
                     HRUSL1 GOTO HRFTPT
                 3   IF ENTRY OF 2, D OR R IN MJ
                     AND ENTRY OF D, R OR V IN HRUSL1
                     GOTO HRFTPT
                 4   IF ENTRY OF 1 IN BUS1 AND ENTRY
                     OF D, R OR V IN HRUSL1 THEN
                     GOTO HRFTPT
                 5   ALL OTHERS GOTO HRCK3-C

PUHRCK3     2    CHECK ITEM 3                                    261 - 262

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   IF ENTRY OF 1 IN ABSOT OR
                     (ENTRY OR 2 IN ABSOT AND
                     ENTRY OF 1 IN BUS AND CURRENT
                     R_P EQUALS BUSLST) THEN GOTO HRCK8
                 2   IF ENTRY OF 3 IN RET1 GOTO HRCK8
                 3   IF ENTRY IN HRUSLT IS 0-34 HOURS GOTO HRCK4-C
                 4   IF ENTRY IN HRUSLT IS 35+ GOTO HROFF1
                 5   ALL OTHERS GOTO HRCK4-C
                 6   GOTO PUHRCK4

PUHRCK4     2    CHECK ITEM 4                                    263 - 264

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   IF ENTRY OF 1, D, R OR V
                     IN HRFTPT THEN GOTO HRACT1
                 2   IF ENTRY OF 2, D OR R IN BUS2 THEN GOTO HROFF1
                 3   IF HRUSLT IS 0-34 THEN GOTO HRWANT
                 4   IF ENTRY OF 2 IN HRFTPT THEN GOTO HRWANT
                 5   ALL OTHERS GOTO HRACT1




                                     6-34
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                   LOCATION


PUHRCK5       2   CHECK ITEM 5                                  265 - 266

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   IF ENTRY OF 1 IN MJOT GOTO HRACT2
                  2   ALL OTHERS GOTO HRCK6-C

PUHRCK6       2   CHECK ITEM 6                                  267 - 268

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   IF HRACT1 AND HRACT2 EQ 0 AND
                      ENTRY OF 2, D, R IN BUS2 THEN GOTO LK
                  2   IF HRACT1 AND HRACT2 EQ 0 THEN
                      STORE 1 IN ABSOT AND GOTO ABSRSN
                  3   ALL OTHERS GOTO HRACTT-C

PUHRCK7       2   CHECK ITEM 7                                  269 - 270

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   (IF ENTRY OF 2, D OR R IN BUS2) AND
                      (HRACT1 LESS THAN 15 OR D) GOTO HRCK8
                  2   (IF ENTRY OF 2, D OR R IN BUS2) AND
                      (HRACT1 IS 15+) GOTO HRCK8
                  3   (IF HRUSLT IS 35+ OR IF ENTRY OF 1 IN HRFTPT)
                      AND (HRACTT < 35) AND ENTRY IN HRACT1 OR HRACT2
                      ISN'T D OR R THEN GOTO HRRSN3
                  4   IF ENTRY OF 1 IN HRWANT AND HRACTT < 35
                      AND (ENTRY OF 1, 2, 3 IN HRRSN1) GOTO HRAVL
                  5   ALL OTHERS GOTO HRCK8

PUHRCK12      2   CHECK ITEM 12                                 271 - 272

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   IF ENTRY OF 2, D OR R IN BUS2
                      AND HRACTT IS LESS THAN 15
                      OR D GOTO LK
                  2   ALL OTHERS GOTO IOCK1




                                       6-35
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                LOCATION

PULAYDT      2    HAS YOUR EMPLOYER GIVEN YOU A DATE         273 - 274
                  TO RETURN TO WORK?

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO

PULAY6M      2    HAVE YOU BEEN GIVEN ANY INDICATION         275 - 276
                  THAT YOU WILL BE RECALLED TO WORK WITHIN
                  THE NEXT 6 MONTHS?

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO

PELAYAVL     2    COULD YOU HAVE RETURNED TO WORK            277 - 278
                  LAST WEEK IF YOU HAD BEEN RECALLED?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEMLR = 3

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO

PULAYAVR     2    WHY IS THAT?                               279 - 280

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   OWN TEMPORARY ILLNESS
                  2   GOING TO SCHOOL
                  3   OTHER

PELAYLK      2    EVEN THOUGH YOU ARE TO BE CALLED BACK      281 - 282
                  TO WORK, HAVE YOU BEEN LOOKING FOR WORK
                  DURING THE LAST 4 WEEKS.

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PELAYAVL= 1, 2




                                     6-36
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                LOCATION


                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    YES
                  2    NO

PELAYDUR      3   DURATION OF LAYOFF                         283 - 285

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PELAYLK = 1, 2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    MIN VALUE
                  52   MAX VALUE

                  Topcoded at 52 weeks starting April 2011

                  52 = 52 weeks or more

PELAYFTO      2   FT/PT STATUS OF JOB FROM WHICH             286 - 287
                  SAMPLE PERSON WAS ON LAYOFF FROM

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PELAYDUR = 0-120

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    YES
                  2    NO

PULAYCK1      2   CHECK ITEM 1                               288 - 289

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    GOTO PULAYCK3
                  2    GOTO PULAYFT
                  3    GOTO PULAYDR

PULAYCK2      2   CHECK ITEM 2                               290 - 291
                  SCREEN FOR DEPENDENT LAYOFF

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    GOTO PULAYDR3
                  2    GOTO PULAYFT

                                           6-37
NAME       SIZE    DESCRIPTION                                    LOCATION

PULAYCK3       2   CHECK ITEM 3                                   292 - 293
                   FILTER FOR DEPENDENT I & O

                   VALID ENTRIES

                   1    MISCK = 5 GOTO IO1INT
                   2    I-ICR = 1 OR I-OCR = 1, GOTO IO1INT
                   3    ALL OTHERS GOTO SCHCK

PULK           2   HAVE YOU BEEN DOING ANYTHING TO FIND           294 - 295
                   WORK DURING THE LAST 4 WEEKS?

                   VALID ENTRIES

                   1    YES
                   2    NO
                   3    RETIRED
                   4    DISABLED
                   5    UNABLE TO WORK

PELKM1     2       WHAT ARE ALL OF THE THINGS YOU HAVE            296 - 297
                   DONE TO FIND WORK DURING THE LAST
                   4 WEEKS? (FIRST METHOD)

                   EDITED UNIVERSE:
                   PEMLR = 4

                   VALID ENTRIES

                   1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                   2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                   3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                   4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                   5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                   6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                   7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS
                   8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                   9    OTHER ACTIVE
                   10   LOOKED AT ADS
                   11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                   12   NOTHING
                   13   OTHER PASSIVE




                                          6-38
NAME     SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                    LOCATION


PULKM2      2   ANYTHING ELSE? (SECOND METHOD)                 298 – 299

                VALID ENTRIES

                1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS
                8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                9    OTHER ACTIVE
                10   LOOKED AT ADS
                11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                13   OTHER PASSIVE

PULKM3      2   SAME AS PULKM2 (THIRD METHOD)                  300 - 301

                VALID ENTRIES

                1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS
                8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                9    OTHER ACTIVE
                10   LOOKED AT ADS
                11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                13   OTHER PASSIVE

PULKM4      2   SAME AS PULKM2 (FOURTH METHOD)                 302 - 303

                VALID ENTRIES

                1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS

                                   6-39
NAME      SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                    LOCATION

                 8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                 9    OTHER ACTIVE
                 10   LOOKED AT ADS
                 11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                 13   OTHER PASSIVE

PULKM5      2    SAME AS PULKM2 (FIFTH METHOD)                  304 - 305

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                 2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                 5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                 6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                 7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS
                 8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                 9    OTHER ACTIVE
                 10   LOOKED AT ADS
                 11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                 13   OTHER PASSIVE

PULKM6      2    SAME AS PULKM2 (SIXTH METHOD)                  306 - 307

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                 2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                 5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                 6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                 7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS
                 8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                 9    OTHER ACTIVE
                 10   LOOKED AT ADS
                 11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                 13   OTHER PASSIVE

PULKDK1      2   YOU SAID YOU HAVE BEEN TRYING TO               308 - 309
                 FIND WORK. HOW DID YOU GO ABOUT LOOKING?
                 (FIRST METHOD)




                                    6-40
NAME      SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                    LOCATION


                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                 2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                 5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                 6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                 7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS
                 8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                 9    OTHER ACTIVE
                 10   LOOKED AT ADS
                 11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                 12   NOTHING
                 13   OTHER PASSIVE

PULKDK2      2   ANYTHING ELSE? (SECOND METHOD)                 310 - 311

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                 2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                 5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                 6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                 7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS
                 8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                 9    OTHER ACTIVE
                 10   LOOKED AT ADS
                 11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                 13   OTHER PASSIVE

PULKDK3      2   SAME AS PULKDK2 (THIRD METHOD)                 312 - 313

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                 2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                 5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                 6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                 7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS


                                    6-41
NAME      SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                    LOCATION

                 8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                 9    OTHER ACTIVE
                 10   LOOKED AT ADS
                 11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                 13   OTHER PASSIVE

PULKDK4      2   SAME AS PULKDK2 (FOURTH METHOD)                314 - 315

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                 2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                 5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                 6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                 7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS
                 8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                 9    OTHER ACTIVE
                 10   LOOKED AT ADS
                 11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                 13   OTHER PASSIVE

PULKDK5     2    SAME AS PULKDK2 (FIFTH METHOD)                 316 - 317

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                 2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                 5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                 6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                 7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS
                 8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                 9    OTHER ACTIVE
                 10   LOOKED AT ADS
                 11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                 13   OTHER PASSIVE

PULKDK6     2    SAME AS PULKDK2 (SIXTH METHOD)                 318 - 319




                                    6-42
NAME      SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                    LOCATION


                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                 2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                 5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                 6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                 7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS
                 8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                 9    OTHER ACTIVE
                 10   LOOKED AT ADS
                 11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                 13   OTHER PASSIVE

PULKPS1      2   CAN YOU TELL ME MORE ABOUT WHAT YOU            320 - 321
                 DID TO SEARCH FOR WORK?
                 (FIRST METHOD)

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                 2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                 5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                 6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                 7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS
                 8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                 9    OTHER ACTIVE
                 10   LOOKED AT ADS
                 11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                 12   NOTHING
                 13   OTHER PASSIVE

PULKPS2      2   ANYTHING ELSE? (SECOND METHOD)                 322 - 323

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                 2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                 5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                 6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                 7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS
                                    6-43
NAME      SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                    LOCATION

                 8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                 9    OTHER ACTIVE
                 10   LOOKED AT ADS
                 11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                 13   OTHER PASSIVE

PULKPS3     2    SAME AS PULKPS2 (THIRD METHOD)                 324 - 325

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                 2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                 5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                 6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                 7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS
                 8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                 9    OTHER ACTIVE
                 10   LOOKED AT ADS
                 11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                 13   OTHER PASSIVE

PULKPS4     2    SAME AS PULKPS2 (FOURTH METHOD)                326 - 327

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                 2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                 5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                 6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                 7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS
                 8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                 9    OTHER ACTIVE
                 10   LOOKED AT ADS
                 11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                 13   OTHER PASSIVE

PULKPS5     2    SAME AS PULKPS2 (FIFTH METHOD)                 328 - 329




                                    6-44
NAME      SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                    LOCATION


                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                 2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                 5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                 6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                 7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS
                 8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                 9    OTHER ACTIVE
                 10   LOOKED AT ADS
                 11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                 13   OTHER PASSIVE

PULKPS6   2      SAME AS PULKPS2 (SIXTH METHOD)                 330 - 331

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                 2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                 5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                 6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                 7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS
                 8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                 9    OTHER ACTIVE
                 10   LOOKED AT ADS
                 11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                 13   OTHER PASSIVE

PELKAVL   2      LAST WEEK, COULD YOU HAVE STARTED              332 - 333
                 A JOB IF ONE HAD BEEN OFFERED?

                 EDITED UNIVERSE:
                 PELKM1 = 1 - 13

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1    YES
                 2    NO

PULKAVR   2      WHY IS THAT?                                   334 - 335




                                    6-45
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                      LOCATION

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   WAITING FOR NEW JOB TO BEGIN
                  2   OWN TEMPORARY ILLNESS
                  3   GOING TO SCHOOL
                  4   OTHER - SPECIFY

PELKLL1O      2   BEFORE YOU STARTED LOOKING FOR WORK, 336 - 337
                  WHAT WERE YOU DOING: WORKING, GOING
                  TO SCHOOL, OR SOMETHING ELSE?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PELKAVL = 1-2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   WORKING
                  2   SCHOOL
                  3   LEFT MILITARY SERVICE
                  4   SOMETHING ELSE

PELKLL2O      2   DID YOU LOSE OR QUIT THAT JOB, OR WAS IT         338 - 339
                  A TEMPORARY JOB THAT ENDED?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PELKLL1O = 1 OR 3

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   LOST JOB
                  2   QUIT JOB
                  3   TEMPORARY JOB ENDED

PELKLWO      2    WHEN LAST WORKED                                 340 - 341

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PELKLL1O = 1 - 4

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   WITHIN THE LAST 12 MONTHS
                  2   MORE THAN 12 MONTHS AGO
                  3   NEVER WORKED

PELKDUR      3    DURATION OF JOB SEEKING                          342 - 344


                                      6-46
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                   LOCATION


                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PELKLWO = 1 - 3

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0   MIN VALUE
                  119 MAX VALUE

                  Topcoded at 119 weeks starting April 2011

                  119 = 119 weeks or more

PELKFTO       2   FT/PT STATUS OF JOBSEEKER                     345 - 346

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PELKDUR = 0-120

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    YES
                  2    NO
                  3    DOESN'T MATTER

PEDWWNTO      2   DO YOU CURRENTLY WANT A JOB,                  347 - 348
                  EITHER FULL OR PART TIME?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PUDWCK1 = 3, 4, -1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    YES, OR MAYBE, IT DEPENDS
                  2    NO
                  3    RETIRED
                  4    DISABLED
                  5    UNABLE

PEDWRSN       2   WHAT IS THE MAIN REASON YOU WERE NOT    349 - 350
                  LOOKING FOR WORK DURING THE LAST 4 WEEKS?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PUDWCK4 = 4, -1




                                            6-47
NAME      SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                   LOCATION

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1    BELIEVES NO WORK AVAILABLE IN AREA OF EXPERTISE
                 2    COULDN'T FIND ANY WORK
                 3    LACKS NECESSARY SCHOOLING/TRAINING
                 4    EMPLOYERS THINK TOO YOUNG OR TOO OLD
                 5    OTHER TYPES OF DISCRIMINATION
                 6    CAN'T ARRANGE CHILD CARE
                 7    FAMILY RESPONSIBILITIES
                 8    IN SCHOOL OR OTHER TRAINING
                 9    ILL-HEALTH, PHYSICAL DISABILITY
                 10   TRANSPORTATION PROBLEMS
                 11   OTHER - SPECIFY

PEDWLKO      2   DID YOU LOOK FOR WORK AT ANY TIME             351 - 352
                 IN THE LAST 12 MONTHS

                 EDITED UNIVERSE:
                 (PUDWCK4 = 1-3) or (PEDWRSN = 1-11)

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1    YES
                 2    NO

PEDWWK       2   DID YOU ACTUALLY WORK AT A JOB OR             353 - 354
                 BUSINESS DURING THE LAST 12 MONTHS?

                 EDITED UNIVERSE:
                 PEDWLKO = 1

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1    YES
                 2    NO

PEDW4WK      2   DID YOU DO ANY OF THIS WORK DURING            355 - 356
                 THE LAST 4 WEEKS?

                 EDITED UNIVERSE:
                 PEDWWK = 1

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1    YES
                 2    NO

                                      6-48
NAME      SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                    LOCATION


PEDWLKWK 2       SINCE YOU LEFT THAT JOB OR                     357 - 358
                 BUSINESS HAVE YOU LOOKED FOR WORK?

                 EDITED UNIVERSE:
                 PEDW4WK = 2

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   YES
                 2   NO

PEDWAVL      2   LAST WEEK, COULD YOU HAVE STARTED              359 - 360
                 A JOB IF ONE HAD BEEN OFFERED?

                 EDITED UNIVERSE:
                 (PEDWWK = 2) or (PEDWLKWK = 1)

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   YES
                 2   NO

PEDWAVR      2   WHY IS THAT?                                   361 - 362

                 EDITED UNIVERSE:
                 PEDWAVL = 2

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   OWN TEMPORARY ILLNESS
                 2   GOING TO SCHOOL
                 3   OTHER

PUDWCK1      2   SCREEN FOR DISCOURAGED WORKERS                 363 - 364

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   IF ENTRY OF 2 IN BUS2 GOTO PUSCHCK
                 2   IF ENTRY OF 3 ON ABSRSN GOTO PUNLFCK1
                 3   IF ENTRY OF 1 IN RET1, STORE 1 IN DWWNTO
                     AND GOTO PUDWCK4
                 4   ALL OTHERS GOTO PUDWWNT

PUDWCK2      2   SCREEN FOR DISABLED                            365 - 366


                                     6-49
NAME      SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                   LOCATION

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   IF ENTRY IN DIS1 OR DIS2 GOTO PUJHCK1-C
                 2   IF ENTRY OF 4 IN DWWNT GOTO PUDIS1
                 3   IF ENTRY OF 5 IN DWWNT GOTO PUDIS2
                 4   ALL OTHERS GOTO PUDWCK4

PUDWCK3     2    FILTER FOR RETIRED                            367 - 368

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   IF AGERNG EQUALS 1-4 OR 9 GOTO PUDWCK4
                 2   ALL OTHERS GOTO PUNLFCK2

PUDWCK4     2    FILTER FOR PASSIVE JOB SEEKERS                369 - 370

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   IF ENTRY OF 10 AND/OR 11 AND/OR 13
                     ONLY IN LKM1-LKM3 GOTO PUDWCK5
                 2   IF ENTRY OF 10 AND/OR 11 AND/OR 13
                     ONLY IN LKDK1-LKDK3 GOTO PUDWCK5
                 3   IF ENTRY OF 10 AND/OR 11 AND/OR 13
                     ONLY IN LKPS1-LKPS3 GOTO PUDWCK5
                 4   ALL OTHERS GOTO PUDWRSN

PUDWCK5     2    FILTER FOR PASSIVE JOB SEEKERS                371 - 372

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   IF ENTRY OF 1 IN LK THEN STORE 1
                     IN DWLKO AND GOTO PUDWWK
                 2   ALL OTHERS GOTO PUDWLK

PEJHWKO     2    HAVE YOU WORKED AT A JOB OR BUSINESS          373 - 374
                 AT ANY TIME DURING THE PAST 12 MONTHS?

                 EDITED UNIVERSE:
                 HRMIS = 4 or 8 AND PEMLR = 5, 6, AND 7

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   YES
                 2   NO



                                       6-50
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                 LOCATION


PUJHDP1O      2   DID YOU DO ANY OF THIS WORK IN              375 - 376
                  THE LAST 4 WEEKS?

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO

PEJHRSN       2   WHAT IS THE MAIN REASON YOU LEFT            377 - 378
                  YOUR LAST JOB?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEJHWKO = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   PERSONAL/FAMILY (INCLUDING PREGNANCY)
                  2   RETURN TO SCHOOL
                  3   HEALTH
                  4   RETIREMENT OR OLD AGE
                  5   TEMP, SEASONAL OR INTERMITTENT JOB COMPLETE
                  6   SLACK WORK/BUSINESS CONDITIONS
                  7   UNSATISFACTORY WORK ARRANGEMENTS (HRS, PAY, ETC.)
                  8   OTHER - SPECIFY

PEJHWANT      2   DO YOU INTEND TO LOOK FOR WORK DURING       379 - 380
                  THE NEXT 12 MONTHS?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  (PEJHWKO = 2) or (PEJHRSN = 1-8)

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES, OR IT DEPENDS
                  2   NO

PUJHCK1       2   FILTER FOR OUTGOING ROTATIONS               381 - 382

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   PURET1 = 1, -2, OR -3
                      THEN GOTO NLFCK2
                  2   IF MISCK EQUALS 4 OR 8
                      THEN GOTO PUJHCK2
                  3   ALL OTHERS GOTO PUNLFCK1

                                        6-51
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                    LOCATION

PUJHCK2      2    FILTER FOR PERSONS GOING THROUGH THE           383 - 384
                  I AND O SERIES

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    IF ENTRY OF 1 IN DWWK AND I-MLR= 3, 4
                       THEN STORE 1 IN JHWKO, STORE
                       DW4WK IN JHDP1O AND GOTO PUJHRSN
                  2    IF ENTRY OF 2, D OR R IN DWWK THEN STORE DWWK IN
                       JHWKO AND GOTO PUJHWANT
                  3    ALL OTHERS GOTO PUJHWK

PRABSREA     2    REASON NOT AT WORK AND PAY STATUS              385 - 386

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEMLR = 2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    FT PAID-VACATION
                  2    FT PAID-OWN ILLNESS
                  3    FT PAID-CHILD CARE PROBLEMS
                  4    FT PAID-OTHER FAMILY/PERSONAL OBLIG.
                  5    FT PAID-MATERNITY/PATERNITY LEAVE
                  6    FT PAID-LABOR DISPUTE
                  7    FT PAID-WEATHER AFFECTED JOB
                  8    FT PAID-SCHOOL/TRAINING
                  9    FT PAID-CIVIC/MILITARY DUTY
                  10   FT PAID-OTHER
                  11   FT UNPAID-VACATION
                  12   FT UNPAID-OWN ILLNESS
                  13   FT UNPAID-CHILD CARE PROBLEMS
                  14   FT UNPAID-OTHER FAM/PERSONAL OBLIGATION
                  15   FT UNPAID-MATERNITY/PATERNITY LEAVE
                  16   FT UNPAID-LABOR DISPUTE
                  17   FT UNPAID-WEATHER AFFECTED JOB
                  18   FT UNPAID-SCHOOL/TRAINING
                  19   FT UNPAID-CIVIC/MILITARY DUTY
                  20   FT UNPAID-OTHER
                  21   PT PAID-VACATION
                  22   PT PAID-OWN ILLNESS
                  23   PT PAID-CHILD CARE PROBLEMS
                  24   PT PAID-OTHER FAMILY/PERSONAL OBLIG.
                  25   PT PAID-MATERNITY/PATERNITY LEAVE
                  26   PT PAID-LABOR DISPUTE
                  27   PT PAID-WEATHER AFFECTED JOB

                                      6-52
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                    LOCATION


                  28   PT PAID-SCHOOL/TRAINING
                  29   PT PAID-CIVIC/MILITARY DUTY
                  30   PT PAID-OTHER
                  31   PT UNPAID-VACATION
                  32   PT UNPAID-OWN ILLNESS
                  33   PT UNPAID-CHILD CARE PROBLEMS
                  34   PT UNPAID-OTHER FAM/PERSONAL OBLIGATION
                  35   PT UNPAID-MATERNITY/PATERNITY LEAVE
                  36   PT UNPAID-LABOR DISPUTE
                  37   PT UNPAID-WEATHER AFFECTED JOB
                  38   PT UNPAID-SCHOOL/TRAINING
                  39   PT UNPAID-CIVIC/MILITARY DUTY
                  40   PT UNPAID-OTHER

PRCIVLF       2   CIVILIAN LABOR FORCE                           387 - 388

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEMLR = 1-7

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  01   IN CIVILIAN LABOR FORCE
                  02   NOT IN CIVILIAN LABOR FORCE

PRDISC        2   DISCOURAGED WORKER RECODE                      389 - 390

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRJOBSEA = 1-4

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    DISCOURAGED WORKER
                  2    CONDITIONALLY INTERESTED
                  3    NOT AVAILABLE

PREMPHRS      2   REASON NOT AT WORK OR HOURS AT WORK            391 - 392

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEMLR = 1-7

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    UNEMPLOYED AND NILF
                  1    W/JOB, NOT AT WORK-ILLNES
                  2    W/JOB, NOT AT WORK-VACATION
                  3    W/JOB, NOT AT WORK-WEATHER AFFECTED JOB
                                      6-53
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                    LOCATION

                  4    W/JOB, NOT AT WORK-LABOR DISPUTE
                  5    W/JOB, NOT AT WORK-CHILD CARE PROBLEMS
                  6    W/JOB, NOT AT WORK-FAM/PERS OBLIGATION
                  7    W/JOB, NOT AT WORK-MATERNITY/PATERNITY
                  8    W/JOB, NOT AT WORK-SCHOOL/TRAINING
                  9    W/JOB, NOT AT WORK-CIVIC/MILITARY DUTY
                  10   W/JOB, NOT AT WORK-DOES NOT WORK IN BUS
                  11   W/JOB, NOT AT WORK-OTHER
                  12   AT WORK- 1-4 HRS
                  13   AT WORK- 5-14 HRS
                  14   AT WORK- 15-21 HRS
                  15   AT WORK- 22-29 HRS
                  16   AT WORK- 30-34 HRS
                  17   AT WORK- 35-39 HRS
                  18   AT WORK- 40 HRS
                  19   AT WORK- 41-47 HRS
                  20   AT WORK- 48 HRS
                  21   AT WORK- 49-59 HRS
                  22   AT WORK- 60 HRS OR MORE

PREMPNOT     2    MLR - EMPLOYED, UNEMPLOYED, OR NILF            393 - 394

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEMLR = 1-7

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    EMPLOYED
                  2    UNEMPLOYED
                  3    NOT IN LABOR FORCE (NILF)-discouraged
                  4    NOT IN LABOR FORCE (NILF)-other

PREXPLF      2    EXPERIENCED LABOR FORCE EMPLOYMENT             395 - 396

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEMLR = 1-4 AND
                  PELKLWO ne 3

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    EMPLOYED
                  2    UNEMPLOYED

PRFTLF       2    FULL TIME LABOR FORCE                          397 - 398



                                        6-54
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                  LOCATION


                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEMLR = 1-4

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   FULL TIME LABOR FORCE
                  2   PART TIME LABOR FORCE

PRHRUSL       2   USUAL HOURS WORKED WEEKLY                    399 - 400

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEMLR = 1-2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   0-20 HRS
                  2   21-34 HRS
                  3   35-39 HRS
                  4   40 HRS
                  5   41-49 HRS
                  6   50 OR MORE HRS
                  7   VARIES-FULL TIME
                  8   VARIES-PART TIME

PRJOBSEA      2   JOB SEARCH RECODE                            401 - 402

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRWNTJOB = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   LOOKED LAST 12 MONTHS, SINCE COMPLETING PREVIOUS JOB
                  2   LOOKED AND WORKED IN THE LAST 4 WEEKS
                  3   LOOKED LAST 4 WEEKS - LAYOFF
                  4   UNAVAILABLE JOB SEEKERS
                  5   NO RECENT JOB SEARCH

PRPTHRS       2   AT WORK 1-34 BY HOURS AT WORK                403 - 404

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEMLR = 1 AND
                  PEHRACTT = 1-34




                                      6-55
NAME      SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                    LOCATION

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 0    USUALLY FT, PT FOR NONECONOMIC REASONS
                 1    USUALLY.FT, PT ECON REASONS; 1-4 HRS
                 2    USUALLY.FT, PT ECON REASONS; 5-14 HRS
                 3    USUALLY.FT, PT ECON REASONS; 15-29 HRS
                 4    USUALLY.FT, PT ECON REASONS; 30-34 HRS
                 5    USUALLY.PT, ECON REASONS; 1-4 HRS
                 6    USUALLY.PT, ECON REASONS; 5-14 HRS
                 7    USUALLY.PT, ECON REASONS; 15-29 HRS
                 8    USUALLY.PT, ECON REASONS; 30-34 HRS
                 9    USUALLY.PT, NON-ECON REASONS; 1-4 HRS
                 10   USUALLY.PT, NON-ECON REASONS; 5-14 HRS
                 11   USUALLY.PT, NON-ECON REASONS; 15-29 HRS
                 12   USUALLY.PT, NON-ECON REASONS; 30-34 HRS

PRPTREA     2    DETAILED REASON FOR PART-TIME                  405 - 406

                 EDITED UNIVERSE:
                 PEMLR = 1 AND
                 (PEHRUSLT = 0-34 OR PEHRACTT = 1-34)

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1    USU. FT-SLACK WORK/BUSINESS CONDITIONS
                 2    USU. FT-SEASONAL WORK
                 3    USU. FT-JOB STARTED/ENDED DURING WEEK
                 4    USU. FT-VACATION/PERSONAL DAY
                 5    USU. FT-OWN ILLNESS/INJURY/MEDICAL APPOINTMENT
                 6    USU. FT-HOLIDAY (RELIGIOUS OR LEGAL)
                 7    USU. FT-CHILD CARE PROBLEMS
                 8    USU. FT-OTHER FAM/PERS OBLIGATIONS
                 9    USU. FT-LABOR DISPUTE
                 10   USU. FT-WEATHER AFFECTED JOB
                 11   USU. FT-SCHOOL/TRAINING
                 12   USU. FT-CIVIC/MILITARY DUTY
                 13   USU. FT-OTHER REASON
                 14   USU. PT-SLACK WORK/BUSINESS CONDITIONS
                 15   USU. PT-COULD ONLY FIND PT WORK
                 16   USU. PT-SEASONAL WORK
                 17   USU. PT-CHILD CARE PROBLEMS
                 18   USU. PT-OTHER FAM/PERS OBLIGATIONS
                 19   USU. PT-HEALTH/MEDICAL LIMITATIONS




                                      6-56
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                     LOCATION


                  20   USU. PT-SCHOOL/TRAINING
                  21   USU. PT-RETIRED/S.S. LIMIT ON EARNINGS
                  22   USU. PT-WORKWEEK <35 HOURS
                  23   USU. PT-OTHER REASON

PRUNEDUR      3   DURATION OF UNEMPLOYMENT FOR                    407 - 409
                  LAYOFF AND LOOKING RECORDS

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEMLR = 3-4

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0   MIN VALUE
                  119 MAX VALUE

                  Topcoded consistent with PELAYDUR or PELKDUR,
                  as appropriate, starting April 2011.

FILLER        2                                                   410 - 411

PRUNTYPE      2   REASON FOR UNEMPLOYMENT                         412 - 413

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEMLR = 3-4
                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    JOB LOSER/ON LAYOFF
                  2    OTHER JOB LOSER
                  3    TEMPORARY JOB ENDED
                  4    JOB LEAVER
                  5    RE-ENTRANT
                  6    NEW-ENTRANT

PRWKSCH       2   LABOR FORCE BY TIME                             414 - 415
                  WORKED OR LOST

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEMLR = 1 - 7




                                        6-57
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                  LOCATION

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    NOT IN LABOR FORCE
                  1    AT WORK
                  2    WITH JOB, NOT AT WORK
                  3    UNEMPLOYED, SEEKS FT
                  4    UNEMPLOYED, SEEKS PT

PRWKSTAT     2    FULL/PART-TIME WORK STATUS                   416 - 417

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEMLR = 1-7

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    NOT IN LABOR FORCE
                  2    FT HOURS (35+), USUALLY FT
                  3    PT FOR ECONOMIC REASONS, USUALLY FT
                  4    PT FOR NON-ECONOMIC REASONS, USUALLY FT
                  5    NOT AT WORK, USUALLY FT
                  6    PT HRS, USUALLY PT FOR ECONOMIC REASONS
                  7    PT HRS, USUALLY PT FOR NON-ECONOMIC REASONS
                  8    FT HOURS, USUALLY PT FOR ECONOMIC REASONS
                  9    FT HOURS, USUALLY PT FOR NON-ECONOMIC
                  10   NOT AT WORK, USUALLY PART-TIME
                  11   UNEMPLOYED FT
                  12   UNEMPLOYED PT

PRWNTJOB     2    NILF RECODE - WANT A JOB OR OTHER NILF       418 - 419

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEMLR = 5-7

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    WANT A JOB
                  2    OTHER NOT IN LABOR FORCE

PUJHCK3      2    JOB HISTORY CHECK ITEM                       420 - 421

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    IF I-MLR EQ 3 OR 4 THEN GOTO PUJHDP1
                  2    ALL OTHERS GOTO PUJHRSN

PUJHCK4      2    SCREEN FOR DEPENDENT NILF                    422 - 423

                                       6-58
NAME      SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                     LOCATION


                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   IF ENTRY OF 2, D OR R IN PUDW4WK OR IN PUJHDP1O
                     THEN GOTO PUJHCK5
                 2   IF ENTRY OF 1 IN PUDW4WK OR IN PUJHDP10
                     THEN GOTO PUIO1INT

                 3   IF I-MLR EQUALS 1 OR 2 AND ENTRY IN
                     PUJHRSN THEN GOTO PUJHCK5
                 4   IF ENTRY IN PUJHRSN THEN GOTO PUIO1INT
                 5   ALL OTHERS GOTO PUNLFCK1

PUJHCK5      2   SCREEN FOR DEPENDENT NILF                       424 - 425

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   IF I-IO1ICR EQUALS 1 OR I-IO1OCR
                     EQUALS 1 THEN GOTO PUIO1INT
                 2   ALL OTHERS GOTO PUIOCK5

PUIODP1      2   LAST MONTH, IT WAS REPORTED THAT YOU            426 - 427
                 WORKED FOR (EMPLOYER'S NAME). DO
                 STILL WORK FOR (EMPLOYER'S NAME)
                 (AT YOUR MAIN JOB)?

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   YES
                 2   NO

PUIODP2      2   HAVE THE USUAL ACTIVITIES AND DUTIES            428 - 429
                 OF YOUR JOB CHANGED SINCE LAST MONTH?

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   YES
                 2   NO

PUIODP3      2   LAST MONTH YOU WERE REPORTED AS (A/AN)      430 - 431
                 (OCCUPATION) AND YOUR USUAL ACTIVITIES WERE
                 (DESCRIPTION). IS THIS AN ACCURATE
                 DESCRIPTION OF YOUR CURRENT JOB?




                                      6-59
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                       LOCATION

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO

PEIO1COW     2    INDIVIDUAL CLASS OF WORKER CODE                   432 - 433
                  ON FIRST JOB

                  NOTE: A PEIO1COW CODE CAN BE ASSIGNED
                  EVEN IF AN INDIVIDUAL IS NOT CURRENTLY
                  EMPLOYED.

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  (PEMLR = 1-3) OR
                  (PEMLR = 4 AND PELKLWO = 1-2) OR
                  (PEMLR = 5 AND (PENLFJH = 1 OR PEJHWKO = 1))
                  OR (PEMLR = 6 AND PENLFJH = 1) OR
                  (PEMLR = 7 AND (PENLFJH = 1 OR PEJHWKO = 1))

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   GOVERNMENT - FEDERAL
                  2   GOVERNMENT - STATE
                  3   GOVERNMENT - LOCAL
                  4   PRIVATE, FOR PROFIT
                  5   PRIVATE, NONPROFIT
                  6   SELF-EMPLOYED, INCORPORATED
                  7   SELF-EMPLOYED, UNINCORPORATED
                  8   WITHOUT PAY

PUIO1MFG     2    IS THIS BUSINESS OR ORGANIZATION MAINLY           434 - 435
                  MANUFACTURING, RETAIL TRADE,
                  WHOLESALE TRADE, OR SOMETHING ELSE?

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   MANUFACTURING
                  2   RETAIL TRADE
                  3   WHOLESALE TRADE
                  4   SOMETHING ELSE

PADDING      6    Main Job I & O Codes moved to columns 856 - 863   436 - 441

PEIO2COW     2    INDIVIDUAL CLASS OF WORKER ON              442 - 443
                  SECOND JOB.
                  NOTE: FOR THOSE SELF-EMPLOYED UNINCORPORATED

                                          6-60
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                         LOCATION


                  ON THEIR FIRST JOB, THIS SHOULD HAVE A RESPONSE
                  EVERY MONTH. FOR ALL OTHERS, THIS SHOULD ONLY
                  HAVE A VALUE IN OUT-GOING ROTATIONS.

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEMJOT = 1 AND (HRMIS = 4,8 OR PEIO1COW = 7,8)

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    GOVERNMENT - FEDERAL
                  2    GOVERNMENT - STATE
                  3    GOVERNMENT - LOCAL
                  4    PRIVATE, FOR PROFIT
                  5    PRIVATE, NONPROFIT
                  6    SELF-EMPLOYED, INCORPORATED
                  7    SELF-EMPLOYED, UNINCORPORATED
                  8    WITHOUT PAY
                  9    UNKNOWN
                  10   GOVERNMENT, LEVEL UNKNOWN
                  11   SELF-EMPLOYED, INCORP. STATUS UNKNOWN

PUIO2MFG      2   IS THIS BUSINESS OR ORGANIZATION MAINLY    444 - 445
                  MANUFACTURING, RETAIL TRADE, WHOLESALE TRADE,
                  OR SOMETHING ELSE?

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    MANUFACTURING
                  2    RETAIL TRADE
                  3    WHOLESALE TRADE
                  4    SOMETHING ELSE

PADDING       6   Second Job I & O codes moved to columns 864 - 871   446 - 451

PUIOCK1       2   I & O CHECK ITEM 1                                  452 - 453
                  SCREEN FOR DEPENDENT I AND O

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    IF {MISCK EQ 1 OR 5)
                       OR MISCK EQ 2-4, 6-8 AND I-MLR EQ 3-7)
                       AND ENTRY OF 1 IN ABS} THEN GOTO PUIO1INT




                                          6-61
NAME      SIZE    DESCRIPTION                                      LOCATION

                  2   IF (MISCK EQ 1 OR 5)
                      OR {(MISCK EQ 2-4, 6-8 AND I-MLR EQ 3-7)
                      AND ( ENTRY OF 1 IN WK OR HRCK7-C IS BLANK, 1-3)}
                      GOTO PUIO1INT
                  3   IF I-IO1NAM IS D, R OR BLANK THEN GOTO PUIO1INT
                  4   ALL OTHERS GOTO PUIODP1

PUIOCK2       2   I & O CHECK ITEM 2                               454 - 455
                  SCREEN FOR PREVIOUS MONTHS I AND O CASES

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   IF I-IO1ICR EQ 1 THEN GOTO PUIO1IND
                  2   IF I-IO1OCR EQ 1 THEN GOTO PUIO1OCC
                  3   ALL OTHERS GOTO PUIODP2

PUIOCK3       2   I & O CHECK ITEM 3                               456 - 457

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   IF I-IO1OCC EQUALS D, R OR BLANK THEN GOTO PUIO1OCC
                  2   IF I-IO1DT1 IS D, R OR BLANK THEN GOTO PUIO1OCC
                  3   ALL OTHERS GOTO PUIODP3

PRIOELG   2       INDUSTRY AND OCCUPATION                          458 - 459
                  ELIGIBILITY FLAG

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEMLR = 1-3,
                  OR (PEMLR = 4 AND PELKLWO = 1 OR 2)
                  OR (PEMLR = 5 AND
                  (PEJHWKO = 1 OR PENLFJH=1),
                  OR (PEMLR = 6 AND PENLFJH = 1),
                  OR PEMLR = 7 AND PEJHWKO = 1)

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0   NOT ELIGIBLE FOR EDIT
                  1   ELIGIBLE FOR EDIT

PRAGNA        2   AGRICULTURE/                                     460 - 461
                  NON-AGRICULTURE INDUSTRY

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRIOELG = 1


                                       6-62
NAME      SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                 LOCATION


                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   AGRICULTURAL
                 2   NON-AGRICULTURAL

PRCOW1       2   CLASS OF WORKER                             462 - 463
                 RECODE - JOB 1

                 EDITED UNIVERSE:
                 PRIOELG = 1

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   FEDERAL GOVT
                 2   STATE GOVT
                 3   LOCAL GOVT
                 4   PRIVATE (INCL. SELF-EMPLOYED INCORP.)
                 5   SELF-EMPLOYED, UNINCORP.
                 6   WITHOUT PAY

PRCOW2       2   CLASS OF WORKER                             464 - 465
                 RECODE - JOB 2

                 EDITED UNIVERSE:
                 PRIOELG = 1 AND PEMJOT = 1 AND
                 HRMIS = 4 OR 8

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   FEDERAL GOVT
                 2   STATE GOVT
                 3   LOCAL GOVT
                 4   PRIVATE (INCL. SELF-EMPLOYED INCORP.)
                 5   SELF-EMPLOYED, UNINCORP.
                 6   WITHOUT PAY

PRCOWPG      2   COW - PRIVATE OR GOVERNMENT                 466 - 467

                 EDITED UNIVERSE:
                 PEIO1COW = 1 - 5

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   PRIVATE
                 2   GOVERNMENT

                                     6-63
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                               LOCATION


PRDTCOW1     2    DETAILED CLASS OF WORKER RECODE - JOB 1   468 - 469

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRIOELG = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    AGRI., WAGE & SALARY, PRIVATE
                  2    AGRI., WAGE & SALARY, GOVERNMENT
                  3    AGRI., SELF-EMPLOYED
                  4    AGRI., UNPAID
                  5    NONAG, WS, PRIVATE, PRIVATE HHLDS
                  6    NONAG, WS, PRIVATE, OTHER PRIVATE
                  7    NONAG, WS, GOVT, FEDERAL
                  8    NONAG, WS, GOVT, STATE
                  9    NONAG, WS, GOVT, LOCAL
                  10   NONAG, SELF-EMPLOYED
                  11   NONAG, UNPAID

PRDTCOW2     2    DETAILED CLASS OF WORKER RECODE - JOB 2   470 - 471

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRIOELG = 1 AND PEMJOT = 1 AND
                  HRMIS = 4 OR 8

                  VALID ENTRIES

                   1   AGRI., WAGE & SALARY, PRIVATE
                   2   AGRI., WAGE & SALARY, GOVERNMENT
                   3   AGRI., SELF-EMPLOYED
                   4   AGRI., UNPAID
                   5   NONAG, WS, PRIVATE, PRIVATE HHLDS
                   6   NONAG, WS, PRIVATE, OTHER PRIVATE
                   7   NONAG, WS, GOVT, FEDERAL
                   8   NONAG, WS, GOVT, STATE
                   9   NONAG, WS, GOVT, LOCAL
                  10   NONAG, SELF-EMPLOYED
                  11   NONAG, UNPAID

PRDTIND1     2    DETAILED INDUSTRY RECODE - JOB 1          472 - 473

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRIOELG = 1




                                      6-64
NAME   SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                                LOCATION


              VALID ENTRIES

              1    Agriculture
              2    Forestry, logging, fishing, hunting, and trapping
              3    Mining
              4    Construction
              5    Nonmetallic mineral product manufacturing
              6    Primary metals and fabricated metal products
              7    Machinery manufacturing
              8    Computer and electronic product manufacturing
              9    Electrical equipment, appliance manufacturing
              10   Transportation equipment manufacturing
              11   Wood products
              12   Furniture and fixtures manufacturing
              13   Miscellaneous and not specified manufacturing
              14   Food manufacturing
              15   Beverage and tobacco products
              16   Textile, apparel, and leather manufacturing
              17   Paper and printing
              18   Petroleum and coal products manufacturing
              19   Chemical manufacturing
              20   Plastics and rubber products
              21   Wholesale trade
              22   Retail trade
              23   Transportation and warehousing
              24   Utilities
              25   Publishing industries (except internet)
              26   Motion picture and sound recording industries
              27   Broadcasting (except internet)
              28   Internet publishing and broadcasting
              29   Telecommunications
              30   Internet service providers and data processing services
              31   Other information services
              32   Finance
              33   Insurance
              34   Real estate
              35   Rental and leasing services
              36   Professional and technical services
              37   Management of companies and enterprises
              38   Administrative and support services
              39   Waste management and remediation services

                                       6-65
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                              LOCATION

                  40   Educational services
                  41   Hospitals
                  42   Health care services, except hospitals
                  43   Social assistance
                  44   Arts, entertainment, and recreation
                  45   Accommodation
                  46   Food services and drinking places
                  47   Repair and maintenance
                  48   Personal and laundry services
                  49   Membership associations and organizations
                  50   Private households
                  51   Public administration
                  52   Armed forces

PRDTIND2     2    DETAILED INDUSTRY RECODE - JOB 2                         474 - 475

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRIOELG = 1 AND PEMJOT = 1 AND HRMIS = 4 OR 8

                  VALID ENTRIES

                   1   Agriculture
                   2   Forestry, logging, fishing, hunting, and trapping
                   3   Mining
                   4   Construction
                   5   Nonmetallic mineral product manufacturing
                   6   Primary metals and fabricated metal products
                   7   Machinery manufacturing
                   8   Computer and electronic product manufacturing
                   9   Electrical equipment, appliance manufacturing
                  10   Transportation equipment manufacturing
                  11   Wood products
                  12   Furniture and fixtures manufacturing
                  13   Miscellaneous and not specified manufacturing
                  14   Food manufacturing
                  15   Beverage and tobacco products
                  16   Textile, apparel, and leather manufacturing
                  17   Paper and printing
                  18   Petroleum and coal products manufacturing
                  19   Chemical manufacturing
                  20   Plastics and rubber products
                  21   Wholesale trade
                  22   Retail trade
                                           6-66
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                               LOCATION


                  23   Transportation and warehousing
                  24   Utilities
                  25   Publishing industries (except internet)
                  26   Motion picture and sound recording industries
                  27   Broadcasting (except internet)
                  28   Internet publishing and broadcasting
                  29   Telecommunications
                  30   Internet service providers and data processing services
                  31   Other information services
                  32   Finance
                  33   Insurance
                  34   Real estate
                  35   Rental and leasing services
                  36   Professional and technical services
                  37   Management of companies and enterprises
                  38   Administrative and support services
                  39   Waste management and remediation services
                  40   Educational services
                  41   Hospitals
                  42   Health care services, except hospitals
                  43   Social assistance
                  44   Arts, entertainment, and recreation
                  45   Accommodation
                  46   Food services and drinking places
                  47   Repair and maintenance
                  48   Personal and laundry services
                  49   Membership associations and organizations
                  50   Private households
                  51   Public administration
                  52   Armed forces

PRDTOCC1   2      DETAILED OCCUPATION RECODE - JOB 1                         476 - 477

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRIOELG = 1




                                          6-67
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                              LOCATION


                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    Management occupations
                  2    Business and financial operations occupations
                  3    Computer and mathematical science occupations
                  4    Architecture and engineering occupations
                  5    Life, physical, and social science occupations
                  6    Community and social service occupations
                  7    Legal occupations
                  8    Education, training, and library occupations
                  9    Arts, design, entertainment, sports, and media
                       occupations
                  10   Healthcare practitioner and technical occupations
                  11   Healthcare support occupations
                  12   Protective service occupations
                  13   Food preparation and serving related occupations
                  14   Building and grounds cleaning and maintenance
                        occupations
                  15   Personal care and service occupations
                  16   Sales and related occupations
                  17   Office and administrative support occupations
                  18   Farming, fishing, and forestry occupations
                  19   Construction and extraction occupations
                  20   Installation, maintenance, and repair occupations
                  21   Production occupations
                  22   Transportation and material moving occupations
                  23   Armed Forces

PRDTOCC2      2   DETAILED OCCUPATION RECODE                               478 - 479

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRIOELG = 1 AND PEMJOT = 1 AND HRMIS = 4 OR 8

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    Management occupations
                  2    Business and financial operations occupations
                  3    Computer and mathematical science occupations
                  4    Architecture and engineering occupations
                  5    Life, physical, and social science occupations
                  6    Community and social service occupations
                  7    Legal occupations
                  8    Education, training, and library occupations
                  9    Arts, design, entertainment, sports, and media
                                          6-68
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                              LOCATION


                       occupations
                  10   Healthcare practitioner and technical occupations
                  11   Healthcare support occupations
                  12   Protective service occupations
                  13   Food preparation and serving related occupations
                  14   Building and grounds cleaning and maintenance
                       occupations
                  15   Personal care and service occupations
                  16   Sales and related occupations
                  17   Office and administrative support occupations
                  18   Farming, fishing, and forestry occupations
                  19   Construction and extraction occupations
                  20   Installation, maintenance, and repair occupations
                  21   Production occupations
                  22   Transportation and material moving occupations
                  23   Armed Forces

PREMP         2   EMPLOYED PERSONS (NON-FARM                               480 - 481
                  & NON-PRIVATE HHLD) RECODE

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEMLR = 1 OR 2
                  AND PEIO1OCD ne 403-407, 473-484

                  VALID ENTRY

                  1    EMPLOYED PERSONS (EXC. FARM & PRIV HH)

PRMJIND1      2   MAJOR INDUSTRY RECODE - JOB 1                            482 - 483
                  EDITED UNIVERSE: PRDTIND1 = 1-51

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    Agriculture, forestry, fishing, and hunting
                  2    Mining
                  3    Construction
                  4    Manufacturing
                  5    Wholesale and retail trade
                  6    Transportation and utilities
                  7    Information
                  8    Financial activities
                  9    Professional and business services

                                           6-69
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                              LOCATION

                  10   Educational and health services
                  11   Leisure and hospitality
                  12   Other services
                  13   Public administration
                  14   Armed Forces

PRMJIND2      2   MAJOR INDUSTRY RECODE - JOB 2                            484 - 485

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:         PRDTIND2 = 1-51

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    Agriculture, forestry, fishing, and hunting
                  2    Mining
                  3    Construction
                  4    Manufacturing
                  5    Wholesale and retail trade
                  6    Transportation and utilities
                  7    Information
                  8    Financial activities
                  9    Professional and business services
                  10   Educational and health services
                  11   Leisure and hospitality
                  12   Other services
                  13   Public administration
                  14   Armed Forces

PRMJOCC1      2   MAJOR OCCUPATION RECODE                                  486 - 487
                  - JOB 1

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRDTOCC1 = 1-46

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    Management, business, and financial occupations
                  2    Professional and related occupations
                  3    Service occupations
                  4    Sales and related occupations
                  5    Office and administrative support occupations
                  6    Farming, fishing, and forestry occupations
                  7    Construction and extraction occupations
                  8    Installation, maintenance, and repair occupations

                                           6-70
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                              LOCATION


                  9 Production occupations
                  10 Transportation and material moving occupations
                  11 Armed Forces

PRMJOCC2      2   MAJOR OCCUPATION RECODE                                  488 - 489
                  - JOB 2

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRDTOCC2 = 1-46

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    Management, business, and financial occupations
                  2    Professional and related occupations
                  3    Service occupations
                  4    Sales and related occupations
                  5    Office and administrative support occupations
                  6    Farming, fishing, and forestry occupations
                  7    Construction and extraction occupations
                  8    Installation, maintenance, and repair occupations
                  9    Production occupations
                  10   Transportation and material moving occupations
                  11   Armed Forces

PRMJOCGR      2   MAJOR OCCUPATION CATEGORIES                              490 - 491

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRMJOCC = 1-11

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    Management, professional, and related occupations
                  2    Service occupations
                  3    Sales and office occupations
                  4    Farming, fishing, and forestry occupations
                  5    Construction, and maintenance occupations
                  6    Production, transportation, and material moving
                       occupations
                  7    Armed Forces

PRNAGPWS      2   NON-AGRICULTURE, PRIVATE                                 492 - 493
                  WAGE AND SALARY WORKERS RECODE


                                          6-71
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                            LOCATION

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRCOW1 = 1 AND
                  PEIO1ICD ne 0170 - 0890

                  VALID ENTRY

                  1   NON-AG PRIV WAGE & SALARY

PRNAGWS       2   NON-AGRICULTURE WAGE AND               494 - 495
                  SALARY WORKERS RECODE

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEMLR = 1-4
                  AND PRCOW = 1-4
                  AND PEIO1ICD ne 0170-0290

                  VALID ENTRY

                  1   NON-AG WAGE AND SALARY WORKERS

PRSJMJ        2   SINGLE/MULTIPLE JOBHOLDER              496 - 497

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEMLR = 1 OR 2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   SINGLE JOBHOLDER
                  2   MULTIPLE JOBHOLDER

PRERELG       2   EARNINGS ELIGIBILITY FLAG              498 - 499

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEMLR = 1-2 AND HRMIS = 4 OR 8

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0   NOT ELIGIBLE FOR EDIT
                  1   ELIGIBLE FOR EDIT

PEERNUOT      2   DO YOU USUALLY RECEIVE OVERTIME PAY,   500 - 501
                  TIPS, OR COMMISSIONS AT YOUR JOB?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRERELG = 1


                                        6-72
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                              LOCATION


                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO

PEERNPER      2   PERIODICITY                              502 - 503

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRERELG = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   HOURLY
                  2   WEEKLY
                  3   BI-WEEKLY
                  4   TWICE MONTHLY
                  5   MONTHLY
                  6   ANNUALLY
                  7   OTHER - SPECIFY

PEERNRT       2   (EVEN THOUGH YOU TOLD ME IT IS EASIER    504 - 505
                  TO REPORT YOUR EARNINGS (PERIODICITY);
                  ARE YOU PAID AT AN HOURLY RATE ON
                  YOUR (MAIN/THIS) JOB?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEERNPER = 2-7

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO

PEERNHRY      2   HOURLY/NONHOURLY STATUS                  506 - 507

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRERELG = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   HOURLY WORKER
                  2   NONHOURLY WORKER




                                        6-73
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                            LOCATION

PUERNH1C      4   WHAT IS YOUR HOURLY RATE OF PAY ON                      508 - 511
                  THIS JOB, EXCLUDING OVERTIME PAY, TIPS
                  OR COMMISSION?
                  DOLLAR AMOUNT - 2 IMPLIED DECIMALS

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0     MIN VALUE
                  9999 MAX VALUE (Subject to topcoding based on the entry in PEERNHRO such
                  that PEERNHRO x PUERNHIC < or = 2884.61)

PEERNH2       4   (EXCLUDING OVERTIME PAY, TIPS AND                       512 - 515
                  COMMISSIONS) WHAT IS YOUR HOURLY RATE
                  OF PAY ON YOUR (MAIN/THIS) JOB?
                  DOLLAR AMOUNT - 2 IMPLIED DECIMALS

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEERNRT = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0     MIN VALUE
                  9999 MAX VALUE ( Subject to topcoding based on the entry in PEERNHRO such
                  that PEERNHRO x PEERNH2 < or = 2884.61)

PEERNH1O      4   OUT VARIABLE FOR HOURLY                                 516 - 519
                  RATE OF PAY (2 IMPLIED DECIMALS)

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEERNPER = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    MIN VALUE
                  9999 MAX VALUE (Subject to topcoding based on the entry in PEERNHRO
                       such that PEERNHRO x PEERNHLY < or = 2884.61)

PRERNHLY      4   RECODE FOR HOURLY RATE                                  520 - 523
                  2 IMPLIED DECIMALS

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEERNPER = 1 OR PEERNRT = 1




                                         6-74
NAME       SIZE    DESCRIPTION                                           LOCATION


                   VALID ENTRIES

                   0    MIN VALUE
                   9999 MAX VALUE (Subject to topcoding based on the entry in PEERNHRO
                        such that PEERNHRO x PEERNHLY < or = 2884.61)

PTHR       1       HOURLY PAY - TOP CODE                                  524 – 524

                   VALID ENTRIES

                   0    NOT TOPCODED
                   1    TOPCODED

PEERNHRO       2   USUAL HOURS                                            525 - 526

                   EDITED UNIVERSE:
                   PEERNH1O = ENTRY

                   VALID ENTRIES

                   0    MIN VALUE
                   99   MAX VALUE

PRERNWA        8   WEEKLY EARNINGS RECODE                                 527 - 534
                   2 IMPLIED DECIMALS

                   EDITED UNIVERSE:
                   PRERELG = 1

                   VALID ENTRIES

                   0      MIN VALUE
                   288461 MAX VALUE

PTWK           1   WEEKLY EARNINGS - TOP CODE                             535 - 535

                   0    NOT TOPCODED
                   1    TOPCODED

FILLER         4                                                          536 - 539

PEERN          8   CALCULATED WEEKLY OVERTIME AMOUNT                      540 - 547
                   2 IMPLIED DECIMALS



                                          6-75
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                 LOCATION

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEERNUOT = 1 AND PEERNPER = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0      MIN VALUE
                  288461 MAX VALUE

PUERN2        8   CALCULATED WEEKLY                           548 - 555
                  OVERTIME AMOUNT
                  2 IMPLIED DECIMALS

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0      MIN VALUE
                  288461 MAX VALUE

PTOT          1   WEEKLY OVERTIME AMOUNT - TOP CODE           556 - 556

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    NOT TOPCODED
                  1    TOPCODED

FILLER        2                                               557-558

PEERNWKP      2   HOW MANY WEEKS A YEAR DO YOU                559 - 560
                  GET PAID FOR?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEERNPER = 6

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  01   MIN VALUE
                  52   MAX VALUE

PEERNLAB      2   ON THIS JOB, ARE YOU A MEMBER OF A          561 - 562
                  LABOR UNION OR OF AN EMPLOYEE ASSOCIATION
                  SIMILAR TO A UNION?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  (PEIO1COW = 1-5 AND PEMLR = 1-2
                   AND HRMIS = 4, 8)



                                      6-76
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                 LOCATION


                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO

PEERNCOV      2   ON THIS JOB ARE YOU COVERED BY A UNION      563 - 564
                  OR EMPLOYEE ASSOCIATION CONTRACT?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  (PEIO1COW = 1-5 AND PEMLR = 1-2
                  AND HRMIS = 4, 8)

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO

PENLFJH       2   WHEN DID YOU LAST WORK AT A JOB             565 - 566
                  OR BUSINESS?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  HRMIS = 4 OR 8 AND PEMLR = 3-7

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   WITHIN THE LAST 12 MONTHS
                  2   MORE THAN 12 MONTHS AGO
                  3   NEVER WORKED

PENLFRET      2   ARE YOU RETIRED FROM A JOB                  567 - 568
                  OR BUSINESS?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEAGE = 50+ AND PEMLR = 3-7

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO

PENLFACT      2   WHAT BEST DESCRIBES YOUR SITUATION AT       569 - 570
                  THIS TIME? FOR EXAMPLE, ARE YOU DISABLED,
                  ILL, IN SCHOOL, TAKING CARE OF HOUSE OR
                  FAMILY, OR SOMETHING ELSE?


                                      6-77
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                  LOCATION

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  (PEAGE = 14-49) or (PENLFRET = 2)

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   DISABLED
                  2   ILL
                  3   IN SCHOOL
                  4   TAKING CARE OF HOUSE OR FAMILY
                  5   IN RETIREMENT
                  6   SOMETHING ELSE/OTHER

PUNLFCK1      2   NOT IN LABOR FORCE                           571 - 572
                  CHECK ITEM - 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   IF AGERNG EQUALS 1-4 OR 9
                      THEN GOTO NLFACT
                  2   ALL OTHERS GOT NLFRET

PUNLFCK2      2   NOT IN LABOR FORCE                           573 - 574
                  CHECK ITEM - 2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   IF MISCK EQUALS 4 OR 8 THEN GOTO NLFJH
                  2   ALL OTHERS GOTO LBFR-END

PESCHENR      2   LAST WEEK, WERE YOU ENROLLED IN A            575 - 576
                  HIGH SCHOOL, COLLEGE, OR UNIVERSITY?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRPERTYP = 2 and PEAGE = 16-24

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO

PESCHFT       2   ARE YOU ENROLLED IN SCHOOL AS A                   577 - 578
                  FULL-TIME OR PART-TIME STUDENT?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PESCHLVL = 1, 2


                                        6-78
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                  LOCATION


                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   FULL-TIME
                  2   PART-TIME

PESCHLVL      2   WOULD THAT BE HIGH SCHOOL, COLLEGE,           579 - 580
                  OR UNIVERSITY?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PESCHENR = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   HIGH SCHOOL
                  2   COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY

PRNLFSCH      2   NLF ACTIVITY - IN SCHOOL OR                   581 - 582
                  NOT IN SCHOOL

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PENLFACT = -1 OR 1-6 AND PEAGE = 16-24

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   IN SCHOOL
                  2   NOT IN SCHOOL

                  PERSON'S WEIGHTS

PWFMWGT      10   FAMILY WEIGHT                               583 - 592
                  (4 IMPLIED DECIMALS)
                  ONLY USED FOR TALLYING FAMILY CHARACTERISTICS.

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRPERTYP = 1-3

PWLGWGT      10   LONGITUDINAL WEIGHT                       593 - 602
                  (4 IMPLIED DECIMALS)
                  ONLY FOUND ON ADULT RECORDS MATCHED FROM MONTH TO MONTH.
                  (USED FOR GROSS FLOWS ANALYSIS)

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRPERTYP = 2



                                      6-79
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                                 LOCATION


PWORWGT      10   OUTGOING ROTATION WEIGHT                                     603 - 612
                  (4 IMPLIED DECIMALS)

                  USED FOR TALLYING INFORMATION COLLECTED ONLY IN
                  OUTGOING ROTATIONS (i.e., EARNINGS, 2nd JOB I & O,
                  DETAILED NILF)

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRPERTYP = 2

PWSSWGT      10   FINAL WEIGHT                                                 613 – 622

                  (4 IMPLIED DECIMAL PLACES)
                  USED FOR MOST TABULATIONS, CONTROLLED TO
                  INDEPENDENT ESTIMATES FOR 1) STATES; 2) ORIGIN, SEX,
                  AND AGE; AND 3) AGE, RACE, AND SEX.

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRPERTYP = 1-3

PWVETWGT     10   VETERANS WEIGHT                                              623 - 632
                  (4 IMPLIED DECIMALS)

                  USED FOR TALLYING VETERAN'S DATA ONLY, CONTROLLED TO
                  ESTIMATES OF VETERANS SUPPLIED BY VA.

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRPERTYP = 2

PRCHLD        2   PRESENCE OF OWN CHILDREN <18 YEARS                           633-634
                  OF AGE BY SELECTED AGE GROUP

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRFAMREL = 1 or 2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  -1   NIU (Not a parent)
                   0   No own children under 18 years of age
                   1   All own children 0- 2 years of age
                   2   All own children 3- 5 years of age
                   3   All own children 6-13 years of age
                   4   All own children 14-17 years of age
                   5   Own children 0- 2 and 3- 5 years of age (none 6-17)
                   6   Own children 0- 2 and 6-13 years of age (none 3- 5 or 14-17)

                                           6-80
NAME       SIZE     DESCRIPTION                                                  LOCATION


                      7   Own children 0- 2 and 14-17 years of age (none 3-13)
                      8   Own children 3- 5 and 6-13 years of age (none 0- 2 or 14-17)
                      9   Own children 3- 5 and 14-17 years of age (none 0- 2 or 6-13)
                     10   Own children 6-13 and 14-17 years of age (none 0- 5)
                     11   Own children 0- 2, 3- 5, and 6-13 years of age (none 14-17)
                     12   Own children 0- 2, 3- 5, and 14-17 years of age (none 6-13)
                     13   Own children 0- 2, 6-13, and 14-17 years of age (none 3- 5)
                     14   Own children 3- 5, 6-13, and 14-17 years of age (none 0- 2)
                     15   Own children from all age groups

PRNMCHLD      2      Number of own children <18 years of age                      635-636

                     EDITED UNIVERSE:
                     PRFAMREL = 1 or 2

                     VALID ENTRIES

                     -1 NIU (Not a parent)
                     0:99 Number of own children under 18 years of age

FILLER        2                                                                   637 - 638

                  ALLOCATION FLAGS

PRWERNAL      2      ALLOCATION FLAG                                              639 - 640

                     WEEKLY EARNINGS RECODE (PRERNWA)
                     ALLOCATION FLAG

                     EDITED UNIVERSE:
                     PRERELG = 1

                     00   NO ALLOCATION
                     01   ONE OR MORE COMPONENTS OF THE
                          RECODE ARE ALLOCATED

PRHERNAL      2     ALLOCATION FLAG                                               641 - 642

                    HOURLY EARNINGS RECODE (PRERNHLY)
                    ALLOCATION FLAG

                    EDITED UNIVERSE:
                    PRERNHRY = 1

                    00    NO ALLOCATION
                    01    ONE OR MORE COMPONENT OF THE
                                              6-81
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                 LOCATION

                      RECODE ARE ALLOCATED

HXTENURE      2   ALLOCATION FLAG             643 - 644
                  See HETENURE note.

HXHOUSUT      2   ALLOCATION FLAG             645 - 646

HXTELHHD      2   ALLOCATION FLAG             647 - 648

HXTELAVL      2   ALLOCATION FLAG             649 - 650

HXPHONEO      2   ALLOCATION FLAG             651 - 652

PXINUSYR      2   ALLOCATION FLAG             653 - 654

PXRRP         2   ALLOCATION FLAG             655 - 656

PXPARENT      2   ALLOCATION FLAG             657 - 658

PXAGE         2   ALLOCATION FLAG             659 – 660

PXMARITL      2   ALLOCATION FLAG             661 – 662

PXSPOUSE      2   ALLOCATION FLAG             663 - 664

PXSEX         2   ALLOCATION FLAG             665 - 666

PXAFWHN1      2   ALLOCATION FLAG             667 - 668

PXAFNOW       2   ALLOCATION FLAG             669 - 670

PXEDUCA       2   ALLOCATION FLAG             671 - 672

PXRACE1       2   ALLOCATION FLAG             673 - 674

PXNATVTY      2   ALLOCATION FLAG             675 – 676

PXMNTVTY      2   ALLOCATION FLAG             677 - 678

PXFNTVTY      2   ALLOCATION FLAG             679 - 680

FILLER        2                               681 - 682

PXHSPNON      2   ALLOCATION FLAG             683 - 684

PXMLR         2   ALLOCATION FLAG             685 - 686

                                       6-82
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION              LOCATION


PXRET1        2   ALLOCATION FLAG          687 - 688

PXABSRSN      2   ALLOCATION FLAG          689 - 690

PXABSPDO      2   ALLOCATION FLAG          691 - 692

PXMJOT        2   ALLOCATION FLAG          693 - 694

PXMJNUM       2   ALLOCATION FLAG          695 - 696

PXHRUSL1      2   ALLOCATION FLAG          697 - 698

PXHRUSL2      2   ALLOCATION FLAG          699 - 700

PXHRFTPT      2   ALLOCATION FLAG          701 - 702

PXHRUSLT      2   ALLOCATION FLAG          703 - 704

PXHRWANT      2   ALLOCATION FLAG          705 - 706

PXHRRSN1      2   ALLOCATION FLAG          707 - 708

PXHRRSN2      2   ALLOCATION FLAG          709 – 710

PXHRACT1      2   ALLOCATION FLAG          711 - 712

PXHRACT2      2   ALLOCATION FLAG          713 - 714

PXHRACTT      2   ALLOCATION FLAG          715 - 716

PXHRRSN3      2   ALLOCATION FLAG          717 - 718

PXHRAVL       2   ALLOCATION FLAG          719 - 720

PXLAYAVL      2   ALLOCATION FLAG          721 - 722

PXLAYLK       2   ALLOCATION FLAG          723 - 724

PXLAYDUR      2   ALLOCATION FLAG          725 - 726

PXLAYFTO      2   ALLOCATION FLAG          727 - 728

PXLKM1        2   ALLOCATION FLAG          729 - 730

PXLKAVL       2   ALLOCATION FLAG          731 - 732

                                    6-83
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION              LOCATION

PXLKLL1O      2   ALLOCATION FLAG          733 - 734

PXLKLL2O      2   ALLOCATION FLAG          735 - 736

PXLKLWO       2   ALLOCATION FLAG          737 - 738

PXLKDUR       2   ALLOCATION FLAG          739 - 740

PXLKFTO       2   ALLOCATION FLAG          741 - 742

PXDWWNTO      2   ALLOCATION FLAG          743 - 744

PXDWRSN       2   ALLOCATION FLAG          745 - 746

PXDWLKO       2   ALLOCATION FLAG          747 - 748

PXDWWK        2   ALLOCATION FLAG          749 - 750

PXDW4WK       2   ALLOCATION FLAG          751 - 752

PXDWLKWK      2   ALLOCATION FLAG          753 - 754

PXDWAVL       2   ALLOCATION FLAG          755 - 756

PXDWAVR       2   ALLOCATION FLAG          757 - 758

PXJHWKO       2   ALLOCATION FLAG          759 - 760

PXJHRSN       2   ALLOCATION FLAG          761 - 762

PXJHWANT      2   ALLOCATION FLAG          763 - 764

PXIO1COW      2   ALLOCATION FLAG          765 - 766

PXIO1ICD      2   ALLOCATION FLAG          767 - 768

PXIO1OCD      2   ALLOCATION FLAG          769 - 770

PXIO2COW      2   ALLOCATION FLAG          771 - 772

PXIO2ICD      2   ALLOCATION FLAG          773 - 774

PXIO2OCD      2   ALLOCATION FLAG          775 - 776

PXERNUOT      2   ALLOCATION FLAG          777 - 778


                                    6-84
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                      LOCATION


PXERNPER      2   ALLOCATION FLAG                                  779 - 780

PXERNH1O      2   ALLOCATION FLAG                                  781 - 782

PXERNHRO      2   ALLOCATION FLAG                                  783 - 784

PXERN         2   ALLOCATION FLAG                                  785 - 786

FILLER        4                                                    787 - 790

PXERNWKP      2   ALLOCATION FLAG                                  791 - 792

PXERNRT       2   ALLOCATION FLAG                                  793 - 794

PXERNHRY      2   ALLOCATION FLAG                                  795 - 796

PXERNH2       2   ALLOCATION FLAG                                  797 - 798

PXERNLAB      2   ALLOCATION FLAG                                  799 - 800

PXERNCOV      2   ALLOCATION FLAG                                  801 - 802

PXNLFJH       2   ALLOCATION FLAG                                  803 - 804

PXNLFRET      2   ALLOCATION FLAG                                  805 - 806

PXNLFACT      2   ALLOCATION FLAG                                  807 - 808

PXSCHENR      2   ALLOCATION FLAG                                  809 - 810

PXSCHFT       2   ALLOCATION FLAG                                  811 - 812

PXSCHLVL      2   ALLOCATION FLAG                                  813 - 814

QSTNUM        5   Unique household identifier. Valid only within   815 - 819
                  any specific month.

OCCURNUM      2   Unique person identifier. Valid only within      820 - 821
                  any specific month.

PEDIPGED      2   How did...get...'s high school diploma?          822 - 823

                  EDITED UNIVERSE
                  PEEDUCA = 39


                                            6-85
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                               LOCATION

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  -1   Not in universe
                  1    Graduation from high school
                  2    GED or other equivalent

PEHGCOMP      2   What was the highest grade of regular                     824 - 825
                  school...completed before receiving...'s
                  GED?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE
                  PEDIPGED = 2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  -1   Not in universe
                  1    Less than 1st grade
                  2    1st, 2nd, 3rd, or 4th grade
                  3    5th or 6th grade
                  4    7th or 8th grade
                  5    9th grade
                  6    10th grade
                  7    11th grade
                  8    12th grade (no diploma)

PECYC         2   How many years of college credit has...completed?         826 - 827

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEEDUCA =40-42

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  -1   Not in universe
                  1    Less than 1 year (includes 0 years completed)
                  2    The first or Freshman year
                  3    The second or Sophomore year
                  4    The third or Junior year
                  5    Four or more years

PEGRPROF      2   Since completing...bachelor's degree, have you taken      828 - 829
                  any graduate or professional school courses for credit?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEEDUCA = 43



                                             6-86
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                         LOCATION


                  VALID ENTRIES

                  -1   Not in universe
                  1    Yes
                  2    No

PEGR6COR      2   Did...complete 6 or more graduate or professional   830 - 831
                  school courses?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEGRPROF = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  -1   Not in universe
                  1    Yes
                  2    No

PEMS123       2   Was ... master's degree program a 1 year,           832 - 833
                  2 year, or 3 year program?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEEDUCA = 44

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  -1   Not in universe
                  1    1 year program
                  2    2 year program
                  3    3 year program

PXDIPGED      2   ALLOCATION FLAG                                     834 - 835

PXHGCOMP      2   ALLOCATION FLAG                                     836 - 837

PXCYC         2   ALLOCATION FLAG                                     838 - 839

PXGRPROF      2   ALLOCATION FLAG                                     840 - 841

PXGR6COR      2   ALLOCATION FLAG                                     842 – 843

PXMS123       2   ALLOCATION FLAG                                     844 - 845

PWCMPWGT     10   Composited Final Weight. Used to create             846 - 855
                  BLS's published labor force statistics (4 implied
                  decimal places)
                                             6-87
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                         LOCATION

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRPERTYP = 2 AND
                  PEAGE = 16+

PEIO1ICD      4   INDUSTRY CODE FOR PRIMARY JOB       856 - 859

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  (PEMLR = 1-3)
                  OR (PEMLR = 4 AND PELKLWO = 1-2)
                  OR (PEMLR = 5 AND (PENLFJH = 1 OR
                  PEJHWKO = 1))
                  OR (PEMLR = 6 AND PENLFJH = 1)
                  OR (PEMLR = 7 AND PEJHWKO=1)

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    MIN VALUE
                  9999 MAX VALUE

PEIO1OCD      4   OCCUPATION CODE FOR PRIMARY JOB.    860 - 863

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  (PEMLR = 1-3)
                  OR (PEMLR = 4 AND PELKLWO = 1-2)
                  OR (PEMLR = 5 AND (PENLFJH = 1 OR
                  PEJHWKO = 1))
                  OR (PEMLR = 6 AND PENLFJH = 1)
                  OR (PEMLR = 7 AND PEJHWKO = 1)

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    MIN VALUE
                  9999 MAX VALUE

PEIO2ICD      4   INDUSTRY CODE FOR SECOND JOB.       864 - 867

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEMJOT = 1 AND HRMIS = 4 OR 8

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    MIN VALUE
                  9999 MAX VALUE




                                      6-88
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                     LOCATION


PEIO2OCD      4   OCCUPATION CODE FOR SECOND JOB                  868 - 871

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEMJOT = 1 AND HRMIS = 4 OR 8

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    MIN VALUE
                  9999 MAX VALUE

PRIMIND1      2   INTERMEDIATE INDUSTRY RECODE (JOB 1)            872 - 873

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRIOELG = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    AGRICULTURE, FORESTRY, FISHING, and HUNTING
                  2    MINING
                  3    CONSTRUCTION
                  4    MANUFACTURING - DURABLE GOODS
                  5    MANUFACTURING - NON-DURABLE GOODS
                  6    WHOLESALE TRADE
                  7    RETAIL TRADE
                  8    TRANSPORTATION AND WAREHOUSING
                  9    UTILITIES
                  10   INFORMATION
                  11   FINANCE AND INSURANCE
                  12   REAL ESTATE AND RENTAL AND LEASING
                  13   PROFESSIONAL AND TECHNICAL SERVICES
                  14   MANAGEMENT, ADMINISTRATIVE AND WASTE
                       MANAGEMENT SERVICES
                  15   EDUCATIONAL SERVICES
                  16   HEALTH CARE AND SOCIAL SERVICES
                  17   ARTS, ENTERTAINMENT, AND RECREATION
                  18   ACCOMMODATION AND FOOD SERVICES
                  19   PRIVATE HOUSEHOLDS
                  20   OTHER SERVICES, EXCEPT PRIVATE HOUSEHOLDS
                  21   PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
                  22   ARMED FORCES

PRIMIND2      2   INTERMEDIATE INDUSTRY RECODE (JOB 2)            874 - 875

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRIOELG = 1 AND PEMJOT = 1 AND HRMIS = 4 OR 8

                                      6-89
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                   LOCATION

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    AGRICULTURE, FORESTRY, FISHING, and HUNTING
                  2    MINING
                  3    CONSTRUCTION
                  4    MANUFACTURING - DURABLE GOODS
                  5    MANUFACTURING - NON-DURABLE GOODS
                  6    WHOLESALE TRADE
                  7    RETAIL TRADE
                  8    TRANSPORTATION AND WAREHOUSING
                  9    UTILITIES
                  10   INFORMATION
                  11   FINANCE AND INSURANCE
                  12   REAL ESTATE AND RENTAL AND LEASING
                  13   PROFESSIONAL AND TECHNICAL SERVICES
                  14   MANAGEMENT, ADMINISTRATIVE AND WASTE
                       MANAGEMENT SERVICES
                  15   EDUCATIONAL SERVICES
                  16   HEALTH CARE AND SOCIAL SERVICES
                  17   ARTS, ENTERTAINMENT, AND RECREATION
                  18   ACCOMMODATION AND FOOD SERVICES
                  19   PRIVATE HOUSEHOLDS
                  20   OTHER SERVICES, EXCEPT PRIVATE HOUSEHOLDS
                  21   PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
                  22   ARMED FORCES

PEAFWHN1      2   WHEN DID YOU SERVE?                            876 - 877

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEAFEVER = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    SEPTEMBER 2001 OR LATER
                  2    AUGUST 1990 TO AUGUST 2001
                  3    MAY 1975 TO JULY 1990
                  4    VIETNAM ERA (AUGUST 1964 TO APRIL 1975)
                  5    FEBRUARY 1955 TO JULY 1964
                  6    KOREAN WAR (JULY 1950 TO JANUARY 1955)
                  7    JANUARY 1947 TO JUNE 1950
                  8    WORLD WAR II (DECEMBER 1941 TO DECEMBER 1946)
                  9    NOVEMBER 1941 OR EARLIER

PEAFWHN2      2   WHEN DID YOU SERVE?                            878 - 879



                                      6-90
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                   LOCATION


                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEAFEVER = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   SEPTEMBER 2001 OR LATER
                  2   AUGUST 1990 TO AUGUST 2001
                  3   MAY 1975 TO JULY 1990
                  4   VIETNAM ERA (AUGUST 1964 TO APRIL 1975)
                  5   FEBRUARY 1955 TO JULY 1964
                  6   KOREAN WAR (JULY 1950 TO JANUARY 1955)
                  7   JANUARY 1947 TO JUNE 1950
                  8   WORLD WAR II (DECEMBER 1941 TO DECEMBER 1946)
                  9   NOVEMBER 1941 OR EARLIER

PEAFWHN3      2   WHEN DID YOU SERVE?                           880 - 881

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEAFEVER = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   SEPTEMBER 2001 OR LATER
                  2   AUGUST 1990 TO AUGUST 2001
                  3   MAY 1975 TO JULY 1990
                  4   VIETNAM ERA (AUGUST 1964 TO APRIL 1975)
                  5   FEBRUARY 1955 TO JULY 1964
                  6   KOREAN WAR (JULY 1950 TO JANUARY 1955)
                  7   JANUARY 1947 TO JUNE 1950
                  8   WORLD WAR II (DECEMBER 1941 TO DECEMBER 1946)
                  9   NOVEMBER 1941 OR EARLIER

PEAFWHN4      2   WHEN DID YOU SERVE?                           882 - 883

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEAFEVER = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   SEPTEMBER 2001 OR LATER
                  2   AUGUST 1990 TO AUGUST 2001
                  3   MAY 1975 TO JULY 1990
                  4   VIETNAM ERA (AUGUST 1964 TO APRIL 1975)
                  5   FEBRUARY 1955 TO JULY 1964


                                     6-91
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                   LOCATION

                  6    KOREAN WAR (JULY 1950 TO JANUARY 1955)
                  7    JANUARY 1947 TO JUNE 1950
                  8    WORLD WAR II (DECEMBER 1941 TO DECEMBER 1946)
                  9    NOVEMBER 1941 OR EARLIER

PXAFEVER      2   ALLOCATION FLAG                                884 - 885

PELNDAD       2   LINE NUMBER OF FATHER                          886 - 887

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  ALL

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  -1   NO FATHER PRESENT
                  01   MIN VALUE
                  16   MAX VALUE

PELNMOM       2   LINE NUMBER OF MOTHER                          888 - 889

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  ALL

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  -1   NO MOTHER PRESENT
                  01   MIN VALUE
                  16   MAX VALUE

PEDADTYP      2   TYPE OF FATHER                                 890 - 891

                  EDITED UNVERSE:
                  ALL

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  -1   NO FATHER PRESENT
                  01   BIOLOGICAL
                  02   STEP
                  03   ADOPTED

PEMOMTYP      2   TYPE OF MOTHER                                 892 - 893

                  EDITED UNVERSE:
                  ALL


                                      6-92
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                         LOCATION


                  VALID ENTRIES

                  -1   NO MOTHER PRESENT
                  01   BIOLOGICAL
                  02   STEP
                  03   ADOPTED

PECOHAB       2   LINE NUMBER OF COHABITING PARTNER   894 - 895

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  ALL

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  -1   NO PARTNER PRESENT
                  01   MIN VALUE
                  16   MAX VALUE

PXLNDAD       2   ALLOCATION FLAG                     896 - 897

PXLNMOM       2   ALLOCATION FLAG                     898 - 899

PXDADTYP      2   ALLOCATION FLAG                     900 – 901

PXMOMTYP      2   ALLOCATION FLAG                     902 - 903

PXCOHAB       2   ALLOCATION FLAG                     904 – 905

PEDISEAR      2   IS…DEAF OR DOES…HAVE SERIOUS        906 - 907
                  DIFFICULTY HEARING?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRPERTYP = 2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    Yes
                  2    No

PEDISEYE      2   IS…BLIND OR DOES…HAVE SERIOUS       908 - 909
                  DIFFICULTY SEEING EVEN WHEN
                  WEARING GLASSES?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRPERTYP = 2

                                     6-93
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                               LOCATION

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   Yes
                  2   No

PEDISREM      2   BECAUSE OF A PHYSICAL, MENTAL, OR         910 - 911
                  EMOTIONAL CONDITION, DOES…HAVE
                  SERIOUS DIFFICULTY CONCENTRATING,
                  REMEMBERING, OR MAKING DECISIONS?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRPERTYP = 2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   Yes
                  2   No

PEDISPHY      2   DOES…HAVE SERIOUS DIFFICULTY              912 - 913
                  WALKING OR CLIMBING STAIRS?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRPERTYP = 2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   Yes
                  2   No

PEDISDRS      2   DOES … HAVE DIFFICULTY                    914 - 915
                  DRESSING OR BATHING?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRPERTYP = 2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   Yes
                  2   No

PEDISOUT      2   BECAUSE OF A PHYSICAL, MENTAL, OR         916 - 917
                  EMOTIONAL CONDITION DOES…HAVE
                  DIFFICULTY DOING ERRANDS ALONE SUCH AS
                  VISITING A DOCTOR'S OFFICE OR SHOPPING?



                                     6-94
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                   LOCATION


                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRPERTYP = 2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   Yes
                  2   No

PRDISFLG      2   DOES THIS PERSON HAVE ANY OF                  918 - 919
                  THESE DISABILITY CONDITIONS?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PEDISEAR OR
                  PEDISEYE OR PEDISREM, PEDISPHY OR
                  PEDISDRS OR PEDISOUT = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES:

                  1   Yes
                  2   No

PXDISEAR      2   ALLOCATION FLAG                               920 - 921

PXDISEYE      2   ALLOCATION FLAG                               922 - 923

PXDISREM      2   ALLOCATION FLAG                               924 - 925

PXDISPHY      2   ALLOCATION FLAG                               926 - 927

PXDISDRS      2   ALLOCATION FLAG                               928 - 929

PXDISOUT      2   ALLOCATION FLAG                               930 - 931

HXFAMINC      2   ALLOCATION FLAG                               932 - 933

FILLER       17   FILLER                                        934 - 950

                       End of Basic CPS Portion of the Record




                                        6-95
                               ATTACHMENT 7

                       Supplement Record Layout

               Current Population Survey, November 2013
                      Civic Engagement Supplement

NAME    SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                       LOCATION


PES1    2      The first question is about LOCAL elections,      951-952
               such as for mayor or a school board.
               (Do you/Does NAME) always vote in local
               elections, (do you/does he/does she)
               sometimes vote, (do you/does he/does she)
               rarely vote, or (do you/does he/does she)
               never vote?

               EDITED UNIVERSE:
               HRINTSTA = 1 AND PRPERTYP = 2 AND PRTAGE >= 18

               VALID ENTRIES:

               1 Always Vote
               2 Sometimes Vote
               3 Rarely Vote
               4 Never Vote
               -1 Not in Universe
               -2 Don't Know
               -3 Refused
               -9 No Response

PES2a   2      I am going to read a list of things some people   953-954
               have done to express their views.
               Please tell me whether or not (you ave/NAME
               has) done any of the following in the last 12
               months, that is since November 2012:
               Contacted or visited a public official – at any
               level of government – to express
               (your/his/her) opinion?

               EDITED UNIVERSE:
               PES1 = 1-4, -2, OR -3



                                         7-1
NAME    SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                    LOCATION


               VALID ENTRIES:

               1 Yes
               2 No
               -1 Not in Universe
               -2 Don't Know
               -3 Refused
               -9 No Response

PES2b   2      Bought or boycotted a certain product or       955-956
               service because of the social or political
               values of the company that provides it?

               EDITED UNIVERSE:
               PES2a = 1, 2, -2, OR -3

               VALID ENTRIES:

               1 Yes
               2 No
               -1 Not in Universe
               -2 Don't Know
               -3 Refused
               -9 No Response

PES3    2      How often, if at all, (have you/has NAME)      957-958
               used the Internet to express (your/his/her)
               opinions about POLITICAL or COMMUNITY
               issues within the last 12 months – basically
               every day, a few times a week, a few times a
               month, once a month, less than once a
               month, or not at all?

               EDITED UNIVERSE:
               PES2b = 1, 2, -2, OR -3




                                       7-2
NAME    SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                       LOCATION


               VALID ENTRIES:

               1 Basically every day
               2 A few times a week
               3 A few times a month
               4 Once a month
               5 Less than once a month
               6 Not at all
               -1 Not in Universe
               -2 Don't Know
               -3 Refused
               -9 No Response

PES5a   2      Next, I will give you a list of types of groups   959-960
               or organizations in which people sometimes
               participate. (Have you/Has NAME)
               participated in any of these groups during the
               last 12 months, that is since November 2012:
               A school group, neighborhood, or community
               association such as PTA or neighborhood
               watch group?

               EDITED UNIVERSE:
               PES3 = 1, 2, -2, or -3

               VALID ENTRIES:

               1 Yes
               2 No
               -1 Not in Universe
               -2 Don't Know
               -3 Refused
               -9 No Response

PES5b   2      Next, I will give you a list of types of groups   961-962
               or organizations in which people sometimes
               participate. (Have you/Has NAME)
               participated in any of these groups during the
               last 12 months, that is since November 2012:
               A service or civic organization such as
               American Legion or Lions Club?


                                        7-3
NAME    SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                       LOCATION

               EDITED UNIVERSE:
               PES5a = 1, 2, -2, or -3

               VALID ENTRIES:

               1 Yes
               2 No
               -1 Not in Universe
               -2 Don't Know
               -3 Refused
               -9 No Response

PES5c   2      Next, I will give you a list of types of groups   963-964
               or organizations in which people sometimes
               participate. (Have you/Has NAME)
               participated in any of these groups during the
               last 12 months, that is since November 2012:
               A sports or recreation organization such as a
               soccer club or tennis club?

               EDITED UNIVERSE:
               PES5b = 1, 2, -2, or -3

               VALID ENTRIES:

               1 Yes
               2 No
               -1 Not in Universe
               -2 Don't Know
               -3 Refused
               -9 No Response

PES5d   2      Next, I will give you a list of types of groups   965-966
               or organizations in which people sometimes
               participate. (Have you/Has NAME)
               participated in any of these groups during the
               last 12 months, that is since November 2012:
               A church, synagogue, mosque, or other
               religious institution or organization, NOT
               COUNTING (your/his/her) attendance.




                                         7-4
NAME    SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                       LOCATION


               EDITED UNIVERSE:
               PES5c = 1, 2, -2, or -3

               VALID ENTRIES:

               1 Yes
               2 No
               -1 Not in Universe
               -2 Don't Know
               -3 Refused
               -9 No Response

PES5e   2      Next, I will give you a list of types of groups   967-968
               or organizations in which people sometimes
               participate. (Have you/Has NAME)
               participated in any of these groups during the
               last 12 months, that is since November 2012:
               Any other type of organization that I have
               not mentioned?

               EDITED UNIVERSE:
               PES5d = 1, 2, -2, or -3

               VALID ENTRIES:

               1 Yes
               2 No
               -1 Not in Universe
               -2 Don't Know
               -3 Refused
               -9 No Response

PES7    2      In the last 12 months, that is since November     969-970
               2012, (have you/has NAME) served on a
               committee or as an officer of any group or
               organization?

               EDITED UNIVERSE:
               (PES5e = 1, 2, -2, or -3)




                                         7-5
NAME    SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                    LOCATION


               VALID ENTRIES:

               1 Yes
               2 No
               -1 Not in Universe
               -2 Don't Know
               -3 Refused
               -9 No Response

PES11   2      These next questions ask how often             971-972
               (you/NAME) did something during a TYPICAL
               MONTH in the last 12 months, that is since
               November 2012. How often did
               (you/NAME) discuss politics with family or
               friends – basically every day, a few times a
               week, a few times a month, once a month,
               less than once a month, or not at all?

               EDITED UNIVERSE:
               PES7 = 1, 2, -2, or -3

               VALID ENTRIES:

               1 Basically every day
               2 A few times a week
               3 A few times a month
               4 Once a month
               5 Less than once a month
               6 Not at all
               -1 Not in Universe
               -2 Don't Know
               -3 Refused
               -9 No Response

PES12   2      How often did (you/NAME) eat dinner with       973-974
               any of the other members of (your/his/her)
               household – basically every day, a few times
               a week, a few times a month, once a month,
               less than once a month, or not at all?




                                        7-6
NAME    SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                      LOCATION


               EDITED UNIVERSE:
               (PES11 = 1-6, -2, -3) AND (HRNUMHOU > 1)

               VALID ENTRIES:

               1 Basically everyday
               2 A few times a week
               3 A few times a month
               4 Once a month
               5 Less than once a month
               6 Not at all
               -1 Not in Universe
               -2 Don't Know
               -3 Refused
               -9 No Response

PES13   2      This next question is about friends and family   975-976
               (you do/NAME does) not live with.
               During the last twelve months, how often did
               (you/NAME) see or hear from friends or
               family, whether in-person or not – basically
               every day, a few times a week, a few times a
               month, once a month, less than once a
               month, or not at all?

               EDITED UNIVERSE:
               (PES11 = 1-6, -2, -3) AND (HRNUMHOU = 1)

               VALID ENTRIES:

               1 Basically everyday
               2 A few times a week
               3 A few times a month
               4 Once a month
               5 Less than once a month
               6 Not at all
               -1 Not in Universe
               -2 Don't Know
               -3 Refused
               -9 No Response



                                       7-7
NAME    SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                        LOCATION


PES15   2      How often did (you/NAME) talk with any of          977-978
               (your/his/her) neighbors – basically every
               day, a few times a week, a few times a
               month, once a month, less than once a
               month, or not at all?

               EDITED UNIVERSE:
               PES13 = 1-6, -2, or -3

               VALID ENTRIES:

               1 Basically every day
               2 A few times a week
               3 A few times a month
               4 Once a month
               5 Less than once a month
               6 Not at all
               -1 Not in Universe
               -2 Don't Know
               -3 Refused
               -9 No Response

PES16   2      How often did (you/NAME) and (your/his/her)        979-980
               neighbors do favors for each other? By
               favors we mean such things as watching each
               others children, helping with shopping, house
               sitting, lending garden or house tools and other
               small things to help each other –
               basically every day, a few times a week, a
               few times a month, once a month, less than
               once a month, or not at all?

               EDITED UNIVERSE:
               PES15 = 1-6, -2, or -3




                                        7-8
NAME    SIZE   DECRIPTION                                    LOCATION


               VALID ENTRIES:

               1 Basically every day
               2 A few times a week
               3 A few times a month
               4 Once a month
               5 Less than once a month
               6 Not at all
               -1 Not in Universe
               -2 Don't Know
               -3 Refused
               -9 No Response

PES18   2      We’d like to know how much you trust people   981-982
               in your neighborhood. Generally speaking,
               would you say that you can trust all the
               people, most of the people, some of the
               people, or none of the people in your
               neighborhood?

               EDITED UNIVERSE:
               (PES16 = 1-6, -2, OR -3) AND (RESPLI EQ
               LINENO) OR (PES16 AND PES18 NE -1)

               VALID ENTRIES:

               1 All the people
               2 Most of the people
               3 Some of the people
               4 None of the people
               -1 Not in Universe
               -2 Don't Know
               -3 Refused
               -9 No Response




                                       7-9
NAME     SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                      LOCATION


PES21a   2      I am going to name some institutions in this     983-984
                country. For each of these institutions, would
                you say you have a great deal of confidence,
                only some confidence, hardly any confidence,
                or no confidence at all in them to do what is
                right?
                Corporations?

                EDITED UNIVERSE:
                PES18 = 1-4, -2, or -3

                VALID ENTRIES:

                1 A great deal of confidence
                2 Some confidence
                3 Hardly any confidence
                4 No confidence at all
                -1 Not in Universe
                -2 Don't Know
                -3 Refused
                -9 No Response

PES21b   2      I am going to name some institutions in this     985-986
                country. For each of these institutions, would
                you say you have a great deal of confidence,
                only some confidence, hardly any confidence,
                or no confidence at all in them to do what is
                right?
                The media?

                EDITED UNIVERSE:
                PES21a = 1-4, -2, or -3




                                         7-10
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                      LOCATION


                  VALID ENTRIES:

                  1 A great deal of confidence
                  2 Some confidence
                  3 Hardly any confidence
                  4 No confidence at all
                  -1 Not in Universe
                  -2 Don't Know
                  -3 Refused
                  -9 No Response

PES21c     2      I am going to name some institutions in this     987-988
                  country. For each of these institutions, would
                  you say you have a great deal of confidence,
                  only some confidence, hardly any confidence,
                  or no confidence at all in them to do what is
                  right?
                  Public Schools?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PES21B = 1-4, -2, or -3

                  VALID ENTRIES:

                  1 A great deal of confidence
                  2 Some confidence
                  3 Hardly any confidence
                  4 No confidence at all
                  -1 Not in Universe
                  -2 Don't Know
                  -3 Refused
                  -9 No Response

PUNXTPR3   2      Is this self or proxy response?                  989-990

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  ALL




                                           7-11
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                       LOCATION


                  VALID ENTRIES:

                  1 Self
                  2 Proxy

PRSUPINT   2      Supplement Interview Status       991-992

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:
                  PRSUPINT = 1, 2

                  VALID ENTRIES:

                  1 Interview
                  2 Non-interview

PWSRWGT    10     Self-Response Supplement Weight   993-1002

PWNRWGT    10     Non-Response Supplement Weight    1003-1012




                                       7-12
                                              ATTACHMENT 8

                                   SUPPLEMENT QUESTIONNAIRE

                          November 2013 Civic Engagement Supplement


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PRESUP 2 The next set of questions are about people’s involvement and communication
              within their communities.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NXTPR I (also) need to talk to (fill name/Read list of needed persons). Is he/she at home
            now/Are either of them at home now/Are any of them at home now?

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
S1          The first question is about LOCAL elections, such as for mayor or a school board.
            (Do you/Does NAME) always vote in local elections, (do you/does he/does she)
            sometimes vote, (do you/does he/does she) rarely vote, or (do you/does he/does
            she) never vote?

                 (1)   Always vote
                 (2)   Sometimes vote
                 (3)   Rarely vote
                 (4)   Never vote

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
S2          I am going to read a list of some things people have done to express their views.
            Please tell me whether or not (you have/NAME has) done any of the following in
            the last 12 months, that is since November 2012:

           (a) Contacted or visited a public official – at any level of government – to express
               (your/his/her) opinion?

                 (1) Yes
                 (2) No

           (b) Bought or boycotted a certain product or service because of the social or
               political values of the company that provides it?

                  (1) Yes
                  (2) No




                                                        8-1
S3       How often, if at all, (have you/has NAME) used the Internet to express
         (your/his/her) opinions about POLITICAL or COMMUNITY issues within the last
         12 months – basically every day, a few times a week, a few times a month, once a
         month, less than once a month, or not at all?

           (1) Basically every day
           (2) A few times a week
           (3) A few times a month
           (4) Once a month
           (5) Less than once a month
           (6) Not at all

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 S5         Next, I will give you a list of types of groups or organizations in which people
            sometimes participate. (Have you/Has NAME) participated in any of these
            groups during the last 12 months, that is since November 2012:

           (a) A school group, neighborhood, or community association such as PTA or
               neighborhood watch group?

                 (1)Yes
                 (2)No

           (b) A service or civic organization such as American Legion or Lions Club?

                (1)    Yes
                (2)    No

           (c) A sports or recreation organization such as a soccer club or tennis club?

                (1)    Yes
                (2)    No

           (d) A church, synagogue, mosque, or other religious institution or organization,
               NOT COUNTING (your/his/her) attendance at religious services?

                (1)    Yes
                (2)    No


           (e) Any other type of organization that I have not mentioned?

                (1)    Yes         Go to S6s
                (2)    No

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                        8-2
S6s        What type of organization is that?

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
S7          In the last 12 months, that is since November 2012, (have you/has NAME) served
            on a committee or as an officer of any group or organization?

                 (1) Yes
                 (2) No

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
S11         These next questions ask how often (you/NAME) did something during a
            TYPICAL MONTH in the last 12 months, that is since November 2012. How
            often did (you/NAME) discuss politics with family or friends – basically every
            day, a few times a week, a few times a month, once a month, less than once a
            month, or not at all?

                 (1) Basically every day
                 (2) A few times a week
                 (3)   A few times a month
                 (4)   Once a month
                 (5)   Less than once a month
                 (6)   Not at all

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

           DO NOT ASK OF 1 PERSON HOUSEHOLDS

S12      How often did (you/NAME) eat dinner with any of the other members of
         (your/his/her) household – basically every day, a few times a week, a few times a
         month, once a month, less than once a month, or not at all?

                 (1)   Basically every day
                 (2)   A few times a week
                 (3)   A few times a month
                 (4)   Once a month
                 (5)   Less than once a month
                 (6)   Not at all

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                                        8-3
S13      This next question is about friends and family (you do/NAME does) not live with.

         During the last twelve months, how often did (you/NAME) see or hear from friends
         or family, whether in-person or not – basically every day, a few times a week, a few
         times a month, once a month, less than once a month, or not at all?

                 (1)   Basically every day
                 (2)   A few times a week
                 (3)   A few times a month
                 (4)   Once a month
                 (5)   Less than once a month
                 (6)   Not at all

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
S15        How often did (you/NAME) talk with any of (your/his/her) neighbors – basically
           every day, a few times a week, a few times a month, once a month, less than once a
           month, or not at all?


                 (1)   Basically every day
                 (2)   A few times a week
                 (3)   A few times a month
                 (4)   Once a month
                 (5)   Less than once a month
                 (6)   Not at all

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
S16        How often did (you/NAME) and (your/his/her) neighbors do favors for each
           other? By favors we mean such things as watching each others children, helping
           with shopping, house sitting, lending garden or house tools and other small things
           to help each other – basically every day, a few times a week, a few times a month,
           less than once a month, or not at all?

                 (1)   Basically every day
                 (2)   A few times a week
                 (3)   A few times a month
                 (4)   Once a month
                 (5)   Less than once a month
                 (6)   Not at all

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                                        8-4
NOTE: Do not ask of proxy respondents.

S18        We’d like to know how much you trust people in your neighborhood. Generally
           speaking, would you say that you can trust all the people, most of the people, some
           of the people, or none of the people in your neighborhood?

                  (1)   All the people
                  (2)   Most of the people
                  (3)   Some of the people
                  (4)   None of the people

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE: Do not ask of proxy respondents.

S21        I am going to name some institutions in this country. For each of these
           institutions, would you say you have a great deal of confidence, only some
           confidence, hardly any confidence, or no confidence at all in them to do what is
           right?

           (a)    Corporations

                  (1) A great deal of confidence
                  (2) Some confidence
                  (3) Hardly any confidence
                  (4) No confidence at all

           (b) The media

                 (1)    A great deal of confidence
                 (2)    Some confidence
                 (3)    Hardly any confidence
                 (4)    No confidence at all

           (c)    Public schools

                 (1)    A great deal of confidence
                 (2)    Some confidence
                 (3)    Hardly and confidence
                 (4)    No confidence at all

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                                        8-5
NXTPR3           ***DO NOT READ TO RESPONDENT***

           Who reported for this person?

                 (1) Self
                 (2) Other

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                                        8-6
                                              ATTACHMENT 9

                                     INDUSTRY CLASSIFICATION

                     Industry Classification Codes for Detailed Industry (4 digit)
                                         (Starting May 2012)


     These categories are aggregated into 52 detailed groups and 14 major groups (see pages 10-12 of
this attachment). The codes in the right hand column are the NAICS equivalent.

    These codes correspond to Items PEIO1ICD and PEIO2ICD, in positions 856-859 and 864-867 of
the Basic CPS record layout in all months, except March. In March, these codes correspond to
PEIOIND and Industry, in positions 172-175 and 292-295 of the Person record.


CENSUS                                                                                     NAICS
CODE                          DESCRIPTION                                                  CODE



          Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing, and Hunting

0170     Crop production                                                               111
0180     Animal production                                                             112
0190     Forestry except logging                                                       1131, 1132
0270     Logging                                                                       1133
0280     Fishing, hunting, and trapping                                                114
0290     Support activities for agriculture and forestry                               115

          Mining

0370     Oil and gas extraction                                                        211
0380     Coal mining                                                                   2121
0390     Metal ore mining                                                              2122
0470     Nonmetallic mineral mining and quarrying and not specified type of mining     Part of 21
0490     Support activities for mining                                                 213

         Utilities

0570     Electric power generation, transmission and distribution                      Pt. 2211
0580     Natural gas distribution                                                      Pt. 2212
0590     Electric and gas, and other combinations                                      Pts. 2211, 2212
0670     Water, steam, air-conditioning, and irrigation systems                        22131, 22133
0680     Sewage treatment facilities                                                   22132
0690     Not specified utilities                                                       Part of 22




                                                       9-1
CODE                                  DESCRIPTION                               INDUSTRY CODE

       Construction

0770   ** Construction                                                            23
       (Includes the cleaning of buildings and dwellings is incidental during
       construction and immediately after construction)

       Manufacturing
       Nondurable Goods manufacturing

1070   Animal food, grain and oilseed milling                                     3111, 3112
1080   Sugar and confectionery products                                           3113
1090   Fruit and vegetable preserving and specialty food manufacturing            3114
1170   Dairy product manufacturing                                                3115
1180   Animal slaughtering and processing                                         3116
1190   Retail bakeries                                                            311811
1270   Bakeries, except retail                                                    3118 exc.
                                                                                  311811
1280   Seafood and other miscellaneous foods, n.e.c.                              3117, 3119
1290   Not specified food industries                                              Part of 311
1370   Beverage manufacturing                                                     3121
1390   Tobacco manufacturing                                                      3122
1470   Fiber, yarn, and thread mills                                              3131
1480   Fabric mills, except knitting                                              3132 exc.
                                                                                  31324
1490   Textile and fabric finishing and coating mills                             3133
1570   Carpet and rug mills                                                       31411
1590   Textile product mills, except carpets and rugs                             314 exc. 31411
1670   Knitting mills                                                             31324, 3151
1680   Cut and sew apparel manufacturing                                          3152
1690   Apparel accessories and other apparel manufacturing                        3159
1770   Footwear manufacturing                                                     3162
1790   Leather tanning and products, except footwear manufacturing                3161, 3169
1870   Pulp, paper, and paperboard mills                                          3221
1880   Paperboard containers and boxes                                            32221
1890   Miscellaneous paper and pulp products                                      32222, 32223,
                                                                                  32229
1990   Printing and related support activities                                    3231
2070   Petroleum refining                                                         32411
2090   Miscellaneous petroleum and coal products                                  32419
2170   Resin, synthetic rubber and fibers, and filaments manufacturing            3252
2180   Agricultural chemical manufacturing                                        3253
2190   Pharmaceutical and medicine manufacturing                                  3254
2270   Paint, coating, and adhesive manufacturing B46                             3255
2280   Soap, cleaning compound, and cosmetics manufacturing                       3256
2290   Industrial and miscellaneous chemicals                                     3251, 3259
2370   Plastics product manufacturing                                             3261
2380   Tire manufacturing                                                         32621
2390   Rubber products, except tires, manufacturing                               32622, 32629




                                                          9-2
CODE                                    DESCRIPTION                                     INDUSTRY CODE

       Durable Goods Manufacturing

2470   Pottery, ceramics, and related products manufacturing                              32711
2480   Structural clay product manufacturing                                              32712
2490   Glass and glass product manufacturing                                              3272
2570   Cement, concrete, lime, and gypsum product manufacturing                           3273, 3274
2590   Miscellaneous nonmetallic mineral product manufacturing                            3279
2670   Iron and steel mills and steel product manufacturing                               3311, 3312
2680   Aluminum production and processing                                                 3313
2690   Nonferrous metal, except aluminum, production and processing                       3314
2770   Foundries                                                                          3315
2780   Metal forgings and stampings                                                       3321
2790   Cutlery and hand tool manufacturing                                                3322
2870   Structural metals, and tank and shipping container manufacturing                   3323, 3324
2880   Machine shops; turned product; screw, nut and bolt manufacturing                   3327
2890   Coating, engraving, heat treating and allied activities                            3328
2970   Ordnance                                                                           332992 to
                                                                                          332995
2980   Miscellaneous fabricated metal products manufacturing                              3325, 3326,
                                                                                          3329 exc.
                                                                                          332992, 332993,
                                                                                          332994, 332995
2990   Not specified metal industries                                                     Part of 331
                                                                                          and 332
3070   Agricultural implement manufacturing                                               33311
3080   Construction, mining and oil field machinery manufacturing                         33312, 33313
3090   Commercial and service industry machinery manufacturing                            3333
3170   Metalworking machinery manufacturing                                               3335
3180   Engines, turbines, and power transmission equipment manufacturing                  3336
3190   Machinery manufacturing, n.e.c.                                                    Part of 333
3360   Computer and peripheral equipment manufacturing                                    3341
3370   Communications, audio, and video equipment manufacturing                           3342, 3343
3380   Navigational, measuring, electromedical, and control instruments manufacturing     3345
3390   Electronic component and product manufacturing, n.e.c.                             3344, 3346
3470   Household appliance manufacturing                                                  3352
3490   Electrical lighting, equipment, and supplies manufacturing, n.e.c.                 3351, 3353,
                                                                                          3359
3570   Motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment manufacturing                           3361, 3362,
                                                                                          3363
3580   Aircraft and parts manufacturing                                                   336411 to
                                                                                          336413
3590   Aerospace products and parts manufacturing                                         336414,
                                                                                          336415, 336419
3670   Railroad rolling stock manufacturing                                               3365
3680   Ship and boat building                                                             3366
3690   Other transportation equipment manufacturing                                       3369




                                                        9-3
CODE                                 DESCRIPTION                                      INDUSTRY CODE

3770   Sawmills and wood preservation                                                   3211
3780   Veneer, plywood, and engineered wood products                                    3212
3790   Prefabricated wood buildings and mobile homes                                    321991,
                                                                                        321992
3870   Miscellaneous wood products                                                      3219 exc.
                                                                                        321991, 321992
3890   Furniture and related product manufacturing                                      337
3960   Medical equipment and supplies manufacturing                                     3391
3970   Toys, amusement, and sporting goods manufacturing                                33992, 33993
3980   Miscellaneous manufacturing, n.e.c.                                              3399 exc.
                                                                                        33992, 33993
3990   Not specified manufacturing industries                                           Part of 31, 32, 33

       Wholesale Trade
       Durable Goods Wholesale

4070   Motor vehicles, parts and supplies, merchant wholesalers                         4231
4080   Furniture and home furnishing, merchant wholesalers                              4232
4090   Lumber and other construction materials, merchant wholesalers                    4233
4170   Professional and commercial equipment and supplies, merchant wholesalers         4234
4180   Metals and minerals, except petroleum, merchant wholesalers                      4235
4190   Electrical goods, merchant wholesalers                                           4236
4260   Hardware, plumbing and heating equipment, and supplies, merchant wholesalers     4237
4270   Machinery, equipment, and supplies, merchant wholesalers                         4238
4280   Recyclable material, merchant wholesalers                                        42393
4290   Miscellaneous durable goods, merchant wholesalers                                4239 exc.
                                                                                        42393

       Nondurable Goods Wholesale

4370   Paper and paper products, merchant wholesalers                                   4241
4380   Drugs, sundries, and chemical and allied products, merchant wholesalers          4242, 4246
4390   Apparel, fabrics, and notions, merchant wholesalers                              4243
4470   Groceries and related products, merchant wholesalers                             4244
4480   Farm product raw materials, merchant wholesalers                                 4245
4490   Petroleum and petroleum products, merchant wholesalers                           4247
4560   Alcoholic beverages, merchant wholesalers                                        4248
4570   Farm supplies, merchant wholesalers                                              42491
4580   Miscellaneous nondurable goods, merchant wholesalers                             4249 exc.
                                                                                        42491
4585   Wholesale electronic markets, agents and brokers                                 4251
4590   Not specified wholesale trade                                                    Part of 42




                                                          9-4
CODE                                   DESCRIPTION              INDUSTRY CODE

       Retail Trade

4670   Automobile dealers                                         4411
4680   Other motor vehicle dealers                                4412
4690   Auto parts, accessories, and tire stores                   4413
4770   Furniture and home furnishings stores                      442
4780   Household appliance stores                                 443111
4790   Radio, TV, and computer stores                             443112,
                                                                  44312
4870   Building material and supplies dealers                     4441 exc.
                                                                  44413
4880   Hardware stores                                            44413
4890   Lawn and garden equipment and supplies stores              4442
4970   Grocery stores                                             4451
4980   Specialty food stores                                      4452
4990   Beer, wine, and liquor stores                              4453
5070   Pharmacies and drug stores                                 4461
5080   Health and personal care, except drug, stores              446 exc.
                                                                  44611
5090   Gasoline stations                                          447
5170   Clothing and accessories, except shoe, stores              448 exc.
                                                                  44821, 4483
5180   Shoe stores                                                44821
5190   Jewelry, luggage, and leather goods stores                 4483
5270   Sporting goods, camera, and hobby and toy stores           44313, 45111,
                                                                  45112
5280   Sewing, needlework, and piece goods stores                 45113
5290   Music stores                                               45114, 45122
5370   Book stores and news dealers                               45121
5380   Department stores and discount stores                      45211
5390   Miscellaneous general merchandise stores                   4529
5470   Retail florists                                            4531
5480   Office supplies and stationery stores                      45321
5490   Used merchandise stores                                    4533
5570   Gift, novelty, and souvenir shops                          45322
5580   Miscellaneous retail stores                                4539
5590   Electronic shopping                                        454111
5591   Electronic auctions                                        454112
5592   Mail order houses                                          454113
5670   Vending machine operators                                  4542
5680   Fuel dealers                                               45431
5690   Other direct selling establishments                        45439
5790   Not specified retail trade                                 Part of 44, 45




                                                          9-5
CODE                                       DESCRIPTION                              INDUSTRY CODE

          Transportation and Warehousing

6070      Air transportation                                                          481
6080      Rail transportation                                                         482
6090      Water transportation                                                        483
6170      Truck transportation                                                        484
6180      Bus service and urban transit                                               4851, 4852,
                                                                                       4854, 4855,
                                                                                      4859
6190      Taxi and limousine service                                                  4853
6270      Pipeline transportation                                                     486
6280      Scenic and sightseeing transportation                                       487
6290      Services incidental to transportation                                       488
6370      Postal Service                                                              491
6380      Couriers and messengers                                                     492
6390      Warehousing and storage                                                     493

          Information

6470      Newspaper publishers                                                        51111
6480      Publishing, except newspapers and software                                  5111 exc.
                                                                                      51111
6490      Software publishing                                                         5112
6570      Motion pictures and video industries                                        5121
6590      Sound recording industries                                                  5122
6670      Radio and television broadcasting and cable                                 515
6672      Internet Publishing and Broadcasting                                        51913
6680      Wired telecommunications carriers                                           5171
6690      Other telecommunications services                                           517 exc.
                                                                                      5171
6695      Data processing, hosting, and related services                              518
6770      Libraries and archives                                                      51912
6780      Other information services                                                  5191 exc.
                                                                                      51912, 51913

 Finance, Insurance, Real Estate, and Rental and Leasing
          Finance and Insurance

6870      Banking and related activities                                              521,52211,
                                                                                      52219
6880      Savings institutions, including credit unions                               52212, 52213
6890      Non-depository credit and related activities                                5222, 5223
6970      Securities, commodities, funds, trusts, and other financial investments     523, 525
6990      Insurance carriers and related activities                                   524




                                                              9-6
CODE                                   DESCRIPTION                                 INDUSTRY CODE

        Real Estate and Rental and Leasing

7070    Real estate                                                                  531
7080    Automotive equipment rental and leasing                                      5321
7170    Video tape and disk rental                                                   53223
7180    Other consumer goods rental                                                  53221, 53222,
                                                                                     53229, 5323
7190    Commercial, industrial, and other intangible assets rental and leasing       5324, 533

Professional, Scientific, Management, Administrative, and Waste management services
         Professional, Scientific, and Technical Services

7270    Legal services                                                               5411
7280    Accounting, tax preparation, bookkeeping, and payroll services               5412
7290    Architectural, engineering, and related services                             5413
7370    Specialized design services                                                  5414
7380    Computer systems design and related services                                 5415
7390    Management, scientific, and technical consulting services                    5416
7460    Scientific research and development services                                 5417
7470    Advertising and related services                                             5418
7480    Veterinary services                                                          54194
7490    Other professional, scientific, and technical services                       5419 exc.
                                                                                     54194

        Management, Administrative and Support, and Waste Management Services

        Management of companies and enterprises

7570    Management of companies and enterprises                                      551

        Administrative and support and waste management services

7580    Employment services                                                          5613
7590    Business support services                                                    5614
7670    Travel arrangements and reservation services                                 5615
7680    Investigation and security services                                          5616
7690    Services to buildings and dwellings                                          5617 exc.
                                                                                     56173
        (except cleaning during construction and immediately after construction)     7770
7770    Landscaping services                                                         56173
7780    Other administrative and other support services                              5611, 5612,
                                                                                     5619
7790    Waste management and remediation services                                    562




                                                            9-7
CODE                                      DESCRIPTION                                      INDUSTRY CODE

Educational, Health and Social Services

          Educational Services

7860      Elementary and secondary schools                                                   6111
7870      Colleges and universities, including junior colleges                               6112, 6113
7880      Business, technical, and trade schools and training                                6114, 6115
7890      Other schools, instruction, and educational services                               6116, 6117

          Health Care and Social Assistance

7970      Offices of physicians                                                              6211
7980      Offices of dentists                                                                6212
7990      Offices of chiropractors                                                           62131
8070      Offices of optometrists                                                            62132
8080      Offices of other health practitioners                                              6213 exc.
                                                                                             62131, 62132
8090      Outpatient care centers                                                            6214
8170      Home health care services                                                          6216
8180      Other health care services                                                         6215, 6219
8190      Hospitals                                                                          622
8270      Nursing care facilities                                                            6231
8290      Residential care facilities, without nursing                                       6232, 6233,
                                                                                             6239
8370      Individual and family services                                                     6241
8380      Community food and housing, and emergency services                                 6242
8390      Vocational rehabilitation services                                                 6243
8470      Child day care services                                                            6244

 Arts, Entertainment, Recreation, Accommodation, and Food Services

          Arts, Entertainment, and Recreation

8560      Independent artists, performing arts, spectator sports, and related industries     711
8570      Museums, art galleries, historical sites, and similar institutions                 712
8580      Bowling centers                                                                    71395
8590      Other amusement, gambling, and recreation industries                               713 exc.
                                                                                             71395
          Accommodation and Food Service

8660      Traveler accommodation                                                             7211
8670      Recreational vehicle parks and camps, and rooming and boarding houses              7212, 7213
8680      Restaurants and other food services                                                722 exc. 7224
8690      Drinking places, alcoholic beverages                                               7224




                                                               9-8
CODE                                  DESCRIPTION                                    INDUSTRY CODE

       Other Services (Except Public Administration)

8770   Automotive repair and maintenance                                               8111 exc.
                                                                                       811192
8780   Car washes                                                                      811192
8790   Electronic and precision equipment repair and maintenance                       8112
8870   Commercial and industrial machinery and equipment repair and maintenance        8113
8880   Personal and household goods repair and maintenance and
       footwear and leather goods repair                                               8114
8970   Barber shops                                                                    812111
8980   Beauty salons                                                                   812112
8990   Nail salons and other personal care services                                    812113,
                                                                                       81219
9070   Dry cleaning and laundry services                                               8123
9080   Funeral homes, cemeteries, and crematories                                      8122
9090   Other personal services                                                         8129
9160   Religious organizations                                                         8131
9170   Civic, social, advocacy organizations, and grant making and giving services     8132, 8133,
                                                                                       8134
9180   Labor unions                                                                    81393
9190   Business, professional, political, and similar organizations                    8139 exc.
                                                                                       81393
9290   Private households                                                              814

       Public Administration

9370   Executive offices and legislative bodies                                        92111, 92112,
                                                                                       92114, pt. 92115
9380   Public finance activities                                                       92113
9390   Other general government and support                                            92119
9470   Justice, public order, and safety activities                                    922, pt. 92115
9480   Administration of human resource programs                                       923
9490   Administration of environmental quality and housing programs                    924, 925
9570   Administration of economic programs and space research                          926, 927
9590   National security and international affairs                                     925

       Armed Forces

9890   Armed Forces                                                                    9281




                                                           9-9
CODE                                    DESCRIPTION                         INDUSTRY CODE



                                       Detailed Industry Recodes
                                                 (01-52)


These codes correspond to Items PRDTIND1 and PRDTIND2 in positions 472-475 of the Basic CPS
record layout in all months except March. In March, these codes correspond to Item
A-DTIND and are located in positions 209-210.



CODE                                    DESCRIPTION                         INDUSTRY CODE

1      Agriculture                                                              0170 - 0180,
                                                                                0290
2      Forestry, logging, fishing, hunting, and trapping                        0190 - 0280
3      Mining                                                                   0370 - 0490
4      Construction                                                             0770
5      Nonmetallic mineral products                                             2470 - 2590
6      Primary metals and fabricated metal products                             2670 - 2990
7      Machinery manufacturing                                                  3070 - 3290
8      Computer and electronic products                                         3360 - 3390
9      Electrical equipment, appliance manufacturing                            3470, 3490
10     Transportation equipment manufacturing                                   3570 - 3690
11     Wood products                                                            3770 - 3870
12     Furniture and fixtures manufacturing                                     3890
13     Miscellaneous and not specified manufacturing                            3960 - 3990
14     Food manufacturing                                                       1070 - 1290
15     Beverage and tobacco products                                            1370, 1390
16     Textile, apparel, and leather manufacturing                              1470 - 1790
17     Paper and printing                                                       1870 - 1990
18     Petroleum and coal products                                              2070, 2090
19     Chemical manufacturing                                                   2170 - 2290
20     Plastics and rubber products                                             2370 - 2390
21     Wholesale trade                                                          4070 - 4590
22     Retail trade                                                             4670 - 5790
23     Transportation and warehousing                                           6070 - 6390
24     Utilities                                                                0570 - 0690
25     Publishing industries (except internet)                                  6470 - 6490
26     Motion picture and sound recording industries                            6570, 6590
27     Broadcasting (except internet)                                           6670
28     Internet publishing and broadcasting                                     6675
29     Telecommunications                                                       6680, 6690
30     Internet service providers and data processing services                  6692, 6695
31     Other information services                                               6770, 6780
32     Finance                                                                  6870 - 6970
33     Insurance                                                                6990
34     Real estate                                                              7070
35     Rental and leasing services                                              7080 - 7190
36     Professional and technical services                                      7270 - 7490
37     Management of companies and enterprises                                  7570

                                                            9-10
CODE                                DESCRIPTION           INDUSTRY CODE

38     Administrative and support services                  7580 - 7780
39     Waste management and remediation services            7790
40     Educational services                                 7860 - 7890
41     Hospitals                                            8190
42     Health care services, except hospitals               7970 - 8180,
43     Social assistance                                    8370 - 8470
44     Arts, entertainment, and recreation                  8560 - 8590
45     Accommodation                                        8660, 8670
46     Food services and drinking places                    8680, 8690
47     Repair and maintenance                               8770 - 8890
48     Personal and laundry services                        8970 - 9090
49     Membership associations and organizations            9160 - 9190
50     Private households                                   9290
51     Public administration                                9370 - 9590
52     Armed forces                                         9890




                                                   9-11
                                         Major Industry Recodes
                                                 (01-14)


These codes correspond to Items PRMJIND1 and PRMJIND2 located in positions 482-485 of the Basic CPS
record layout in all months except March. In March, these codes correspond to Item A-MJIND and are located
in positions 207-208.

CODE                                    DESCRIPTION                                    INDUSTRY CODE

1          Agriculture, forestry, fishing, and hunting                                     0170-0290
2          Mining                                                                          0370-0490
3          Construction                                                                    0770
4          Manufacturing                                                                   1070-3990
5          Wholesale and retail trade                                                      4070-5790
6          Transportation and utilities                                                    6070-6390,
                                                                                           0570-0690
7          Information                                                                     6470-6780
8          Financial activities                                                            6870-7190
9          Professional and business services                                              7270-7790
10         Educational and health services                                                 7860-8470
11         Leisure and hospitality                                                         8560-8690
12         Other services                                                                  8770-9290
13         Public administration                                                           9370-9590
14         Armed Forces                                                                    9890




                                                         9-12
                                         APPENDIX 10
                                 OCCUPATION CLASSIFICATION

                                        (Beginning May 2012)


       These categories are aggregated into 23 detailed groups and 11 major groups (see pages 10-13
and 10-14).The codes in the right hand column are the 2010 SOC equivalent.

        These codes correspond to items PEIO1OCD and PEIO2OCD in positions 860-863 and 868-871
of the Basic CPS record layout in all months. In ASEC, these codes correspond to items PEIOOCC and
OCCUP located in positions 172-172 and 296-299 of the Persons Record. These codes are also
applicable for any other CPS supplements that collect occupation data.


2010                                                                                      2010
CENSUS                                                                                    SOC
CODE                                  DESCRIPTION                                         CODE


          Management Occupations

0010     Chief executives                                                              11-1011
0020     General and operations managers                                               11-1021
0040     Advertising and promotions managers                                           11-2011
0050     Marketing and sales managers                                                  11-2020
0060     Public relations managers                                                     11-2031
0100     Administrative services managers                                              11-3011
0110     Computer and information systems managers                                     11-3021
0120     Financial managers                                                            11-3031
0135     Compensation and benefits managers                                            11-3111
0136     Human resources managers                                                      11-3121
0137     Training and development managers                                             11-3131
0140     Industrial production managers                                                11-3051
0150     Purchasing managers                                                           11-3061
0160     Transportation, storage, and distribution managers                            11-3071
0205     Farmers, ranchers, and other agricultural managers                            11-9013
0220     Construction managers                                                         11-9021
0230     Education administrators                                                      11-9030
0300     Engineering managers                                                          11-9041
0310     Food service managers                                                         11-9051
0330     Gaming managers                                                               11-9071
0340     Lodging managers                                                              11-9081
0350     Medical and health services managers                                          11-9111
0360     Natural sciences managers                                                     11-9121
0410     Property, real estate, and community association managers                     11-9141
0420     Social and community service managers                                         11-9151
0425     Emergency management directors                                                11-9161
                                                    10-1
2010                                                                          2010
CENSUS                                                                        SOC
CODE DESCRIPTION                                                              CODE

   0430   Managers, all other                                                  11-XXXX

           Business and Financial Operations Occupations

             Business Operations Specialists

   0500   Agents and business managers of artists, performers, and athletes     13-1011
   0510   Purchasing agents and buyers, farm products                           13-1021
   0520   Wholesale and retail buyers, except farm products                     13-1022
   0530   Purchasing agents, except wholesale, retail, and farm products        13-1023
   0540   Claims adjusters, appraisers, examiners, and investigators            13-1030
   0565   Compliance officers                                                   13-1041
   0600   Cost estimators                                                       13-1051
   0630   Human resource workers                                                13-1070
   0640   Compensation, benefits, and job analysis specialists                  13-1141
   0650   Training and development specialists                                  13-1151
   0700   Logisticians                                                          13-1081
   0710   Management analysts                                                   13-1111
   0725   Meeting, convention, and event planners                               13-1121
   0726   Fundraisers                                                           13-1131
   0735   Market research analysts and marketing specialists                    13-1161
   0740   Business operations specialists, all other                            13-1199

            Financial Specialists

   0800   Accountants and auditors                                               13-2011
   0810   Appraisers and assessors of real estate                                13-2021
   0820   Budget analysts                                                        13-2031
   0830   Credit analysts                                                        13-2041
   0840   Financial analysts                                                     13-2051
   0850   Personal financial advisors                                            13-2052
   0860   Insurance underwriters                                                 13-2053
   0900   Financial examiners                                                    13-2061
   0910   Loan counselors and officers                                           13-2070
   0930   Tax examiners, collectors, and revenue agents                          13-2081
   0940   Tax prepares                                                           13-2082
   0950   Financial specialists, all other                                       13-2099

           Computer and Mathematical Occupations

   1005   Computer and information research scientists                          15-1111
   1006   Computer systems analysts                                             15-1121
   1007   Information security analysts                                         15-1122
   1010   Computer programmers                                                  15-1131
   1020   Software developers, applications and systems software                15-113X
   1030   Web developers                                                        15-1134
   1050   Computer support specialists                                          15-1150
   1060   Database administrators                                               15-1141
   1105   Network and computer systems administrators                           15-1142
   1106   Computer network architects                                           15-1143
                                                      10-2
1107   Computer occupations, all other                                                    15-1199
1200   Actuaries                                                                          15-2011
1220   Operations research analysts                                                       15-20XX
1240   Mathematicians, statisticians and miscellaneous mathematical science occupations


        Architecture and Engineering Occupations

1300   Architects, except naval                                                           17-1010
1310   Surveyors, cartographers, and photogrammetrists                                    17-1020
1320   Aerospace engineers                                                                17-2011
1340   Agricultural and biomedical engineers                                              17-20XX
1350   Chemical engineers                                                                 17-2041
1360   Civil engineers                                                                    17-2051
1400   Computer hardware engineers                                                        17-2061
1410   Electrical and electronic engineers                                                17-2070
1420   Environmental engineers                                                            17-2081
1430   Industrial engineers, including health and safety                                  17-2110
1440   Marine engineers and naval architects                                              17-2121
1450   Materials engineers                                                                17-2131
1460   Mechanical engineers                                                               17-2141
1500   Mining and geological engineers, including mining safety engineers                 17-2151
1510   Nuclear engineers                                                                  17-2161
1520   Petroleum engineers                                                                17-2171
1530   Engineers, all other                                                               17-2199
1540   Drafters                                                                           17-3010
1550   Engineering technicians, except drafters                                           17-3020
1560   Surveying and mapping technicians                                                  17-3031

        Life, Physical, and Social Science Occupations

1600   Agricultural and food scientists                                                   19-1010
1610   Biological scientists                                                              19-1020
1640   Conservation scientists and foresters                                              19-1030
1650   Medical scientists and life scientists, all other                                  19-10XX
1700   Astronomers and physicists                                                         19-2010
1710   Atmospheric and space scientists                                                   19-2021
1720   Chemists and materials scientists                                                  19-2030
1740   Environmental scientists and geoscientists                                         19-2040
1760   Physical scientists, all other                                                     19-2099
1800   Economists                                                                         19-3011
1820   Psychologists                                                                      19-3030
1840   Urban and regional planners                                                        19-3051
1860   Miscellaneous social scientists, including survey researchers and sociologists     19-30XX
1900   Agricultural and food science technicians                                          19-4011
1910   Biological technicians                                                             19-4021
1920   Chemical technicians                                                               19-4031
1930   Geological and petroleum technicians                                               19-4041
1965   Miscellaneous life, physical, and social science technicians


                                                   10-3
2010                                                                           2010
CENSUS                                                                         SOC
CODE DESCRIPTION                                                               CODE

           Community and Social Services Occupations

   2000   Counselors                                                              21-1010
   2010   Social workers                                                          21-1020
   2015   Probation officers and correctional treatment specialists               21-1092
   2016   Social and human service assistants                                     21-1093
   2025   Miscellaneous community and social service specialists,
          including health educators and community health workers                21-109X
   2040   Clergy                                                                 21-2011
   2050   Directors, religious activities and education                          21-2021
   2060   Religious workers, all other                                           21-2099

           Legal Occupations

   2100   Lawyers, Judges, magistrates, and other judicial workers               23-1011
                                                                                 23-1020
   2105   Judicial law clerks                                                    23-1012
   2145   Paralegals and legal assistants                                        23-2011
   2160   Miscellaneous legal support workers                                    23-2090

           Education, Training, and Library Occupations

   2200   Postsecondary teachers                                                 25-1000
   2300   Preschool and kindergarten teachers                                    25-2010
   2310   Elementary and middle school teachers                                  25-2020
   2320   Secondary school teachers                                              25-2050
   2330   Special education teachers                                             25-2040
   2340   Other teachers and instructors                                         25-3000
   2400   Archivists, curators, and museum technicians                           25-4010
   2430   Librarians                                                             25-4021
   2440   Library technicians                                                    25-4031
   2540   Teacher assistants                                                     25-9041
   2550   Other education, training, and library workers                         25-90XX

           Arts, Design, Entertainment, Sports, and Media Occupations

   2600   Artists and related workers                                            27-1010
   2630   Designers                                                              27-1020
   2700   Actors                                                                 27-2011
   2710   Producers and directors                                                27-2012
   2720   Athletes, coaches, umpires, and related workers                        27-2020
   2740   Dancers and choreographers                                             27-2030
   2750   Musicians, singers, and related workers                                27-2040
   2760   Entertainers and performers, sports and related workers, all other     27-2099
   2800   Announcers                                                             27-3010
   2810   News analysts, reporters and correspondents                            27-3020
   2825   Public relations specialists                                           27-3031
   2830   Editors                                                                27-3041
   2840   Technical writers                                                      27-3042
   2850   Writers and authors                                                    27-3043
                                                       10-4
2860   Miscellaneous media and communication workers                                     27-3090
2900   Broadcast and sound engineering technicians and radio operators, and media and
       communication equipment workers, all other                                        27-40XX
2910   Photographers                                                                     27-4021
2920   Television, video, and motion picture camera operators and editors                27-4030

        Healthcare Practitioners and Technical Occupations

3000   Chiropractors                                                                     29-1011
3010   Dentists                                                                          29-1020
3030   Dietitians and nutritionists                                                      29-1031
3040   Optometrists                                                                      29-1041
3050   Pharmacists                                                                       29-1051
3060   Physicians and surgeons                                                           29-1060
3110   Physician assistants                                                              29-1071
3140   Audiologists                                                                      29-1181
3150   Occupational therapists                                                           29-1122
3160   Physical therapists                                                               29-1123
3200   Radiation therapists                                                              29-1124
3210   Recreational therapists                                                           29-1125
3220   Respiratory therapists                                                            29-1126
3230   Speech-language pathologists                                                      29-1127
3245   Exercise physiologists and therapists, all other                                  29-112X
3250   Veterinarians                                                                     29-1131
3255   Registered nurses                                                                 29-1141
3256   Nurse anesthetists                                                                29-1151
3258   Nurse midwives and nurse practitioners                                            29-11XX
3260   Health diagnosing and treating practitioners, all other                           29-1199
3300   Clinical laboratory technologists and technicians                                 29-2010
3310   Dental hygienists                                                                 29-2021
3320   Diagnostic related technologists and technicians                                  29-2030
3400   Emergency medical technicians and paramedics                                      29-2041
3420   Health diagnosing and treating practitioner support technicians                   29-2050
3500   Licensed practical and licensed vocational nurses                                 29-2061
3510   Medical records and health information technicians                                29-2071
3520   Opticians, dispensing                                                             29-2081
3535   Miscellaneous health technologists and technicians                                29-2090
3540   Other healthcare practitioners and technical occupations, including podiatrists   29-XXXX

        Healthcare Support Occupations

3600   Nursing, psychiatric, and home health aides                                       31-1010
3610   Occupational therapist assistants and aides                                       31-2010
3620   Physical therapist assistants and aides                                           31-2020
3630   Massage therapists                                                                31-9011
3640   Dental assistants                                                                 31-9091
3645   Medical assistants                                                                31-9092
3646   Medical transcriptionists                                                         31-9094
3647   Pharmacy aides                                                                    31-9095
3648   Veterinary assistants and laboratory animal caretakers                            31-9096
3649   Phlebotomists                                                                     31-9097
                                                   10-5
2010                                                                                          2010
CENSUS                                                                                        SOC
CODE DESCRIPTION                                                                              CODE

   3655   Miscellaneous healthcare support occupations, including medical equipment preparers    31-909X

           Protective Service Occupations

   3700   First-line supervisors/managers of correctional officers                               33-1011
   3710   First-line supervisors/managers of police and detectives                               33-1012
   3720   First-line supervisors/managers of fire fighting and prevention workers                33-1021
   3730   Supervisors, protective service workers, all other                                     33-1099
   3740   Fire fighters                                                                          33-2011
   3750   Fire inspectors                                                                        33-2020
   3800   Bailiffs, correctional officers, and jailers                                           33-3010
   3820   Detectives and criminal investigators                                                  33-3021
   3840   Miscellaneous law enforcement workers                                                  33-30XX
   3850   Police officers                                                                        33-3050
   3900   Animal control workers                                                                 33-9011
   3910   Private detectives and investigators                                                   33-9021
   3930   Security guards and gaming surveillance officers                                       33-9030
   3940   Crossing guards                                                                        33-9091
   3945   Transportation security screeners                                                      33-9093
   3955   Lifeguards and other recreational and all other protective service workers             33-909X


           Food Preparation and Serving Related Occupations

   4000   Chefs and head cooks                                                                  35-1011
   4010   First-line supervisors/managers of food preparation and serving workers               35-1012
   4020   Cooks                                                                                 35-2010
   4030   Food preparation workers                                                              35-2021
   4040   Bartenders                                                                            35-3011
   4050   Combined food preparation and serving workers, including fast food                    35-3021
   4060   Counter attendants, cafeteria, food concession, and coffee shop                       35-3022
   4110   Waiters and waitresses                                                                35-3031
   4120   Food servers, nonrestaurant                                                           35-3041
   4130   Food preparation and serving related workers, all other including dining room and
          cafeteria attendants and bartender helpers                                             35-9011
   4140   Dishwashers                                                                            35-9021
   4150   Hosts and hostesses, restaurant, lounge, and coffee shop                               35-9031

           Building and Grounds Cleaning and Maintenance Occupations

   4200   First-line supervisors/managers of housekeeping and janitorial workers                 37-1011
   4210   First-line supervisors/managers of landscaping, lawn service, and groundskeeping
          workers                                                                               37-1012
   4220   Janitors and building cleaners                                                        31-201X
   4230   Maids and housekeeping cleaners                                                       37-2012
   4240   Pest control workers                                                                  37-2021
   4250   Grounds maintenance workers                                                           37-3010



                                                      10-6
        Personal Care and Service Occupations

4300   First-line supervisors/managers of gaming workers                              39-1010
4320   First-line supervisors/managers of personal service workers                    39-1021
4340   Animal trainers                                                                39-2011
4350   Nonfarm animal caretakers                                                      39-2021
4400   Gaming services workers                                                        39-3010
4410   Motion picture projectionists                                                  39-3021
4420   Ushers, lobby attendants, and ticket takers                                    39-3031
4430   Miscellaneous entertainment attendants and related workers                     39-3090
4460   Embalmers and funeral attendants                                               39-40XX
4465   Morticians, undertakers, and funeral directors                                 39-4031
4500   Barbers                                                                        39-5011
4510   Hairdressers, hairstylists, and cosmetologists                                 39-5012
4520   Miscellaneous personal appearance workers                                      39-5090
4530   Baggage porters, bellhops, and concierges                                      39-6010
4540   Tour and travel guides                                                         39-7010
4600   Child care workers                                                             39-9011
4610   Personal and home care aides                                                   39-9021
4620   Recreation and fitness workers                                                 39-9030
4640   Residential advisors                                                           39-9041
4650   Personal care and service workers, all other                                   39-9099


        Sales and Related Occupations

4700   First-line supervisors/managers of retail sales workers                        41-1011
4710   First-line supervisors/managers of non-retail sales workers                    41-1012
4720   Cashiers                                                                       41-2010
4740   Counter and rental clerks                                                      41-2021
4750   Parts salespersons                                                             41-2022
4760   Retail salespersons                                                            41-2031
4800   Advertising sales agents                                                       41-3011
4810   Insurance sales agents                                                         41-3021
4820   Securities, commodities, and financial services sales agents                   41-3031
4830   Travel agents                                                                  41-3041
4840   Sales representatives, services, all other                                     41-3099
4850   Sales representatives, wholesale and manufacturing                             41-4010
4900   Models, demonstrators, and product promoters                                   41-9010
4920   Real estate brokers and sales agents                                           41-9020
4930   Sales engineers                                                                41-9031
4940   Telemarketers                                                                  41-9041
4950   Door-to-door sales workers, news and street vendors, and related workers       41-9091
4965   Sales and related workers, all other                                           41-9099

        Office and Administrative Support Occupations

5000   First-line supervisors/managers of office and administrative support workers   43-1011
5010   Switchboard operators, including answering service                             43-2011
5020   Telephone operators                                                            43-2021
5030   Communications equipment operators, all other                                  43-2099
                                                   10-7
2010                                                                                  2010
CENSUS                                                                                SOC
CODE DESCRIPTION                                                                      CODE

   5100   Bill and account collectors                                                   43-3011
   5110   Billing and posting clerks and machine operators                              43-3021
   5120   Bookkeeping, accounting, and auditing clerks                                  43-3031
   5130   Gaming cage workers                                                           43-3041
   5140   Payroll and timekeeping clerks                                                43-3051
   5150   Procurement clerks                                                            43-3061
   5160   Tellers                                                                       43-3071
   5165   Financial clerks, all other                                                   43-3099
   5200   Brokerage clerks                                                              43-4011
   5220   Court, municipal, and license clerks                                          43-4031
   5230   Credit authorizers, checkers, and clerks                                      43-4041
   5240   Customer service representatives                                              43-4051
   5250   Eligibility interviewers, government programs                                 43-4061
   5260   File Clerks                                                                   43-4071
   5300   Hotel, motel, and resort desk clerks                                          43-4081
   5310   Interviewers, except eligibility and loan                                     43-4111
   5320   Library assistants, clerical                                                  43-4121
   5330   Loan interviewers and clerks                                                  43-4131
   5340   New accounts clerks                                                           43-4141
   5350   Correspondence clerks and order clerks                                        43-4XXX
   5360   Human resources assistants, except payroll and timekeeping                    43-4161
   5400   Receptionists and information clerks                                          43-4171
   5410   Reservation and transportation ticket agents and travel clerks                43-4181
   5420   Information and record clerks, all other                                      43-4199
   5500   Cargo and freight agents                                                      43-5011
   5510   Couriers and messengers                                                       43-5021
   5520   Dispatchers                                                                   43-5030
   5530   Meter readers, utilities                                                      43-5041
   5540   Postal service clerks                                                         43-5051
   5550   Postal service mail carriers                                                  43-5052
   5560   Postal service mail sorters, processors, and processing machine operators     43-5053
   5600   Production, planning, and expediting clerks                                   43-5061
   5610   Shipping, receiving, and traffic clerks                                       43-5071
   5620   Stock clerks and order fillers                                                43-5081
   5630   Weighers, measurers, checkers, and samplers, recordkeeping                    43-5111
   5700   Secretaries and administrative assistants                                     43-6010
   5800   Computer operators                                                            43-9011
   5810   Data entry keyers                                                             43-9021
   5820   Word processors and typists                                                   43-9022
   5840   Insurance claims and policy processing clerks                                 43-9041
   5850   Mail clerks and mail machine operators, except postal service                 43-9051
   5860   Office clerks, general                                                        43-9061
   5900   Office machine operators, except computer                                     43-9071
   5910   Proofreaders and copy markers                                                 43-9081
   5920   Statistical assistants                                                        43-9111
   5940   Office and administrative support workers, including desktop publishers




                                                      10-8
       Farming, Fishing, and Forestry Occupations

6005   First-line supervisors of farming, fishing, and forestry workers                    45-1011
6010   Agricultural inspectors                                                             45-2011
6040   Graders and sorters, agricultural products                                          45-2041
6050   Miscellaneous agricultural workers, including animal breeders                       45-20XX
6100   Fishing and hunting workers                                                         45-3000
6120   Forest and conservation workers                                                     45-4011
6130   Logging workers                                                                     45-4020

        Construction Trades

6200   First-line supervisors/managers of construction trades and extraction workers       47-1011
6210   Boilermakers                                                                        47-2011
6220   Brickmasons, blockmasons, and stonemasons                                           47-2020
6230   Carpenters                                                                          47-2031
6240   Carpet, floor, and tile installers and finishers                                    47-2040
6250   Cement masons, concrete finishers, and terrazzo workers                             47-2050
6260   Construction laborers                                                               47-2061
6300   Paving, surfacing, and tamping equipment operators                                  47-2071
6320   Construction equipment operators, except Paving, surfacing, and tamping
       equipment operators                                                                 47-207X
6330   Drywall installers, ceiling tile installers, and tapers                             47-2080
6355   Electricians                                                                        47-2111
6360   Glaziers                                                                            47-2121
6400   Insulation workers                                                                  47-2130
6420   Painters, construction and maintenance and paperhangers                             47-214X
6440   Pipelayers, plumbers, pipefitters, and steamfitters                                 47-2150
6460   Plasterers and stucco masons                                                        47-2161
6500   Reinforcing iron and rebar workers                                                  47-2171
6515   Roofers                                                                             47-2181
6520   Sheet metal workers                                                                 47-2211
6530   Structural iron and steel workers                                                   47-2221
6600   Helpers, construction trades                                                        47-3010
6660   Construction and building inspectors                                                47-4011
6700   Elevator installers and repairers                                                   47-4021
6710   Fence erectors                                                                      47-4031
6720   Hazardous materials removal workers                                                 47-4041
6730   Highway maintenance workers                                                         47-4051
6740   Rail-track laying and maintenance equipment operators                               47-4061
6750   Septic tank servicers and sewer pipe cleaners                                       47-4071
6765   Miscellaneous construction and related workers, including photovoltaic installers

       Extraction Workers

6800   Derrick, rotary drill, and service unit operators, oil, gas, and mining             47-5010
6820   Earth drillers, except oil and gas                                                  47-5021
6830   Explosives workers, ordnance handling experts, and blasters                         47-5031
6840   Mining machine operators                                                            47-5040
6920   Roustabouts, oil and gas                                                            47-5071
6940   Other extraction workers, including roof bolters and helpers                        47-50XX
                                                     10-9
2010                                                                                               2010
CENSUS                                                                                             SOC
CODE DESCRIPTION                                                                                   CODE


           Installation, Maintenance, and Repair Workers

   7000   First-line supervisors/managers of mechanics, installers, and repairers                    49-1011
   7010   Computer, automated teller, and office machine repairers                                   49-2011
   7020   Radio and telecommunications equipment installers and repairers                            49-2020
   7030   Avionics technicians                                                                       49-2091
   7040   Electric motor, power tool, and related repairers                                          49-2092
   7100   Electrical and electronics repairers, transportation equipment, industrial and utility     49-209X
   7110   Electronic equipment installers and repairers, motor vehicles                              49-2096
   7120   Electronic home entertainment equipment installers and repairers                           49-2097
   7130   Security and fire alarm systems installers                                                 49-2098
   7140   Aircraft mechanics and service technicians                                                 49-3011
   7150   Automotive body and related repairers                                                      49-3021
   7160   Automotive glass installers and repairers                                                  49-3022
   7200   Automotive service technicians and mechanics                                               49-3023
   7210   Bus and truck mechanics and diesel engine specialists                                      49-3031
   7220   Heavy vehicle and mobile equipment service technicians and mechanics                       49-3040
   7240   Small engine mechanics                                                                     49-3050
   7260   Miscellaneous vehicle and mobile equipment mechanics, installers, and repairers            49-3090
   7300   Control and valve installers and repairers                                                 49-9010
   7315   Heating, air conditioning, and refrigeration mechanics and installers                      49-9021
   7320   Home appliance repairers                                                                   49-9031
   7330   Industrial and refractory machinery mechanics                                              49-904X
   7340   Maintenance and repair workers, general                                                    49-9071
   7350   Maintenance workers, machinery                                                             49-9043
   7360   Millwrights                                                                                49-9044
   7410   Electrical power-line installers and repairers                                             49-9051
   7420   Telecommunications line installers and repairers                                           49-9052
   7430   Precision instrument and equipment repairers                                               49-9060
   7510   Coin, vending, and amusement machine servicers and repairers                               49-9091
   7540   Locksmiths and safe repairers                                                              49-9094
   7550   Manufactured building and mobile home installers                                           49-9095
   7560   Riggers                                                                                    49-9096
   7610   Helpers--installation, maintenance, and repair workers                                     49-9098
   7630   Other installation, maintenance, and repair workers, including wind turbine service
          technicians, commercial divers, and signal and train switch repairers                       49-909X

           Production Occupations

   7700   First-line supervisors/managers of production and operating workers                        51-1011
   7710   Aircraft structure, surfaces, rigging, and systems assemblers                              51-2011
   7720   Electrical, electronics, and electromechanical assemblers                                  51-2020
   7730   Engine and other machine assemblers                                                        51-2031
   7740   Structural metal fabricators and fitters                                                   51-2041
   7750   Miscellaneous assemblers and fabricators                                                   51-2090
   7800   Bakers                                                                                     51-3011
   7810   Butchers and other meat, poultry, and fish processing workers                              51-3020
   7830   Food and tobacco roasting, baking, and drying machine operators and tenders                51-3091
   7840   Food batchmakers                                                                           51-3092
                                                       10-10
7850   Food cooking machine operators and tenders                                                51-3093
7855   Food processing workers, all other                                                        51-3099
7900   Computer control programmers and operators                                                51-4010
7920   Extruding and drawing machine setters, operators, and tenders, metal and plastic          51-4021
7940   Rolling machine setters, operators, and tenders and forging machine setters, operators,
       and tenders, metal and plastic                                                            51-402X
7950   Cutting, punching, and press machine setters, operators, and tenders, metal and plastic   51-4031
8000   Grinding, lapping, polishing, and buffing machine tool setters, operators, and tenders,
       metal and plastic                                                                         51-4033
8010   Lathe and turning machine tool setters, operators, and tenders, metal and plastic         51-4034
8030   Machinists                                                                                51-4041
8040   Metal furnace and kiln operators and tenders                                              51-4050
8100   Molders and molding machine setters, operators, and tenders, metal and plastic            51-4070
8130   Tool and die makers                                                                       51-4111
8140   Welding, soldering, and brazing workers                                                   51-4120
8200   Plating and coating machine setters, operators, and tenders, metal and plastic            51-4193
8210   Tool grinders, filers, and sharpeners                                                     51-4194
8220   Metalworkers and plastic workers, all other                                               51-4XXX
8250   Prepress technicians and workers                                                          51-5111
8255   Printing press operators                                                                  51-5112
8256   Print binding and finishing workers                                                       51-5113
8300   Laundry and dry-cleaning workers                                                          51-6011
8310   Pressers, textile, garment, and related materials                                         51-6021
8320   Sewing machine operators                                                                  51-6031
8330   Shoe and leather workers and repairers                                                    51-6041
8350   Tailors, dressmakers, and sewers                                                          51-6050
8400   Textile cutting machine setters, operators, and tenders                                   51-6062
8410   Textile knitting and weaving machine setters, operators, and tenders                      51-6063
8420   Textile winding, twisting, and drawing out machine setters, operators and tenders         51-6064
8450   Upholsterers                                                                              51-6093
8460   Miscellaneous textile, apparel, and furnishings workers, except upholsterers              51-60XX
8500   Cabinetmakers and bench carpenters                                                        51-7011
8510   Furniture finishers                                                                       51-7021
8530   Sawing machine setters, operators, and tenders, wood                                      51-7041
8540   Woodworking machine setters, operators, and tenders, except sawing                        51-7042
8550   Miscellaneous woodworkers, including model makers and pattern makers                      51-70XX
8600   Power plant operators, distributors, and dispatchers                                      51-8010
8610   Stationary engineers and boiler operators                                                 51-8021
8620   Water and liquid waste treatment plant and system operators                               51-8031
8630   Miscellaneous plant and system operators                                                  51-8090
8640   Chemical processing machine setters, operators, and tenders                               51-9010
8650   Crushing, grinding, polishing, mixing, and blending workers                               51-9020
8710   Cutting workers                                                                           51-9030
8720   Extruding, forming, pressing, and compacting machine setters, operators, and tenders      51-9041
8730   Furnace, kiln, oven, drier, and kettle operators and tenders                              51-9051
8740   Inspectors, testers, sorters, samplers, and weighers                                      51-9061
8750   Jewelers and precious stone and metal workers                                             51-9071
8760   Medical, dental, and ophthalmic laboratory technicians                                    51-9080
8800   Packaging and filling machine operators and tenders                                       51-9111
8810   Painting workers                                                                          51-9120
8830   Photographic process workers and processing machine operators                             51-9130
                                                   10-11
2010                                                                                            2010
CENSUS                                                                                          SOC
CODE DESCRIPTION                                                                                CODE

   8850    Cementing and gluing machine operators and tenders                                      51-9191
   8860    Cleaning, washing, and metal pickling equipment operators and tenders                   51-9192
   8910    Etchers and engravers                                                                   51-9194
   8920    Molders, shapers, and casters, except metal and plastic                                 51-9195
   8930    Paper goods machine setters, operators, and tenders                                     51-9196
   8940    Tire builders                                                                           51-9197
   8950    Helpers--production workers                                                             51-9198
   8965    Production workers, including semiconductor processors and cooling and freezing
           equipment operators                                                                     51-91XX

           Transportation and Material Moving Occupations

   9000    Supervisors, transportation and material moving workers                                 53-1000
   9030    Aircraft pilots and flight engineers                                                    53-2010
   9040    Air traffic controllers and airfield operations specialists                             53-2020
   9110    Ambulance drivers and attendants, except emergency medical technicians                  53-3011
   9120    Bus drivers                                                                             53-3020
   9130    Driver/sales workers and truck drivers                                                  53-3030
   9140    Taxi drivers and chauffeurs                                                             53-3041
   9150    Motor vehicle operators, all other                                                      53-3099
   9200    Locomotive engineers and operators                                                      53-4010
   9240    Railroad brake, signal, switch operators, conductors and yardmasters                    53-40XX
   9260    Subway, streetcar, and other rail transportation workers                                53-30XX
   9300    Sailors and marine oilers, and ship engineers                                           53-50XX
   9310    Ship and boat captains and operators                                                    53-5020
   9350    Parking lot attendants                                                                  53-6021
   9360    Service station attendants                                                              53-6031
   9410    Transportation inspectors                                                               53-6051
   9415    Transportation attendants, except flight attendants                                     53-6061
   9420    Other transportation workers, including bridge and lock tenders                         53-60XX
   9510    Crane and tower operators                                                               53-7021
   9520    Dredge, excavating, and loading machine operators                                       53-7030
   9560    Hoist and winch operators, and conveyor operators and tenders                           53-70XX
   9600    Industrial truck and tractor operators                                                  53-7051
   9610    Cleaners of vehicles and equipment                                                      53-7061
   9620    Laborers and freight, stock, and material movers, hand                                  53-7062
   9630    Machine feeders and offbearers                                                          53-7063
   9640    Packers and packagers, hand                                                             53-7064
   9650    Pumping station operators                                                               53-7070
   9720    Refuse and recyclable material collectors                                               53-7081
   9750    Material moving workers, including mine shuttle operators and tank car, truck, and
           ship loaders                                                                            53-71XX

           Armed Forces

   *9840   Armed Forces




                                                      10-12
                                          Detailed Occupation Recodes
                                                     (01-23)


      These codes correspond to Items PRDTOCC1 and PRDTOCC2 in positions 476-479 of the Basic CPS
      record layout in all months except March. In March, these codes correspond to Item A-DTOCC and are
      located in positions 161-162.

CODE           CODE DESCRIPTION                                                   OCCUPATION CODE

 1             Management occupations                                                   0010-0430
 2             Business and financial operations occupations                            0500-0950
 3             Computer and mathematical science occupations                            1000-1240
 4             Architecture and engineering occupations                                 1300-1560
 5             Life, physical, and social science occupations                           1600-1965
 6             Community and social service occupation                                  2000-2060
 7             Legal occupations                                                        2100-2160
 8             Education, training, and library occupations                             2200-2550
 9             Arts, design, entertainment, sports, and media occupations               2600-2960
 10            Healthcare practitioner and technical occupations                        3000-3540
 11            Healthcare support occupations                                           3600-3655
 12            Protective service occupations                                           3700-3955
 13            Food preparation and serving related occupations                         4000-4160
 14            Building and grounds cleaning and maintenance occupations                4200-4250
 15            Personal care and service occupations                                    4300-4650
 16            Sales and related occupations                                            4700-4965
 17            Office and administrative support occupations                            5000-5940
 18            Farming, fishing, and forestry occupations                               6000-6130
 19            Construction and extraction occupations                                  6200-6940
 20            Installation, maintenance, and repair occupations                        7000-7630
 21            Production occupations                                                   7700-8965
 22            Transportation and material moving occupations                           9000-9750
 23            Armed Forces                                                             9840




                                                        10-13
                              Major Occupation Group Recodes
                                          (01-11)


  These codes correspond to Items PRMJOCC1 and PRMJOCC2 located in positions 482-485 of the Basic
  CPS record layout in all months except March. In March, these codes correspond to Item A-MJOCC
  and are located in positions 159-160.

CODE       CODE DESCRIPTION                                                OCCUPATION CODE

  1        Management, business, and financial occupations                    0010-0950
  2        Professional and related occupations                               1000-3540
  3        Service occupations                                                3600-4650
  4        Sales and related occupations                                      4700-4965
  5        Office and administrative support occupations                      5000-5940
  6        Farming, fishing, and forestry occupations                         6000-6130
  7        Construction and extraction occupations                            6200-6940
  8        Installation, maintenance, and repair occupations                  7000-7630
  9        Production occupations                                             7700-8965
  10       Transportation and material moving occupations                     9000-9750
  11       Armed Forces                                                       9840




                                                      10-14
                                            ATTACHMENT 11

                                      Specific Metropolitan Identifiers

                                 (Geographic Attachment for
                              CPS Public Use File Documentation
                                   Beginning August 2005)

List 1. FIPS Metropolitan Area (CBSA) Codes

List 2. FIPS Consolidated Statistical Area (CSA) Codes

List 3. Individual Principal Cities

List 4. FIPS County Codes


Unless otherwise noted, all definitions for geographic areas on these lists reflect the June 30, 2003 OMB
definitions.




                                                    11-1
                  LIST 1: FIPS METROPOLITAN AREA (CBSA) CODES


Unless otherwise noted, Metropolitan Areas are defined using June 30, 2003 OMB definitions.
In the New England states, the New England City and Town Area definitions are used to define
Metropolitan Areas rather than the county based definitions.

FIPS
Code                   Metropolitan (CBSA) TITLE

10500                  Albany, GA (Baker, Terrell, and Worth Counties not in sample)
10580                  Albany-Schenectady-Troy, NY
10740                  Albuquerque, NM
10900                  Allentown-Bethlehem-Easton, PA-NJ
11020                  Altoona, PA
11100                  Amarillo, TX (Armstrong and Carson Counties not in sample)
11300                  Anderson, IN
11340                  Anderson, SC
11460                  Ann Arbor, MI
11500                  Anniston-Oxford, AL
11540                  Appleton, WI
11700                  Asheville, NC (Haywood and Madison Counties not in sample)
12020                  Athens-Clarke County, GA (Oglethorpe County not in sample)
12060                  Atlanta-Sandy Springs-Marietta, GA (Haralson, Heard, Jasper,
                               Meriwether and Spalding Counties not in sample)
12100                  Atlantic City, NJ
12260                  Augusta-Richmond County, GA-SC
12420                  Austin-Round Rock, TX
12540                  Bakersfield, CA
12580                  Baltimore-Towson, MD
12940                  Baton Rouge, LA
13140                  Beaumont-Port Arthur, TX
13380                  Bellingham, WA
13460                  Bend, OR
13740                  Billings, MT (Carbon County not in sample)
13780                  Binghamton, NY
13820                  Birmingham-Hoover, AL
14020                  Bloomington, IN (Owen County not in sample)
14060                  Bloomington-Normal IL
14260                  Boise City-Nampa, ID (Owyhee County not in sample)
14500                  Boulder, CO
14540                  Bowling Green, KY
14740                  Bremerton-Silverdale, WA
15180                  Brownsville-Harlingen, TX
15380                  Buffalo-Niagara Falls, NY
15940                  Canton-Massillon, OH
15980                  Cape Coral-Fort Myers, FL
16300                  Cedar Rapids, IA (Benton and Jones Counties not in sample)
16580                  Champaign-Urbana, IL (Ford County not in sample)
16620                  Charleston, WV (Clay County not in sample)
16700                  Charleston-North Charleston, SC
                                                11-2
FIPS
Code    Metropolitan (CBSA) TITLE

16740   Charlotte-Gastonia-Concord, NC-SC (Anson County, NC not in sample)
16860   Chattanooga, TN-GA
16980   Chicago-Naperville-Joliet, IL-IN-WI (DeKalb, IL; Jasper, IN; and
                Kenosha, WI Counties not in sample)
17020   Chico, CA
17140   Cincinnati-Middletown, OH-KY-IN (Franklin County , IN not in sample;
                Dearborn and Ohio Counties, IN not identified)
17460   Cleveland-Elyria-Mentor, OH
17660   Coeur d’Alene, ID
17820   Colorado Springs, CO
17860   Columbia, MO (Howard County not in sample)
17900   Columbia, SC
17980   Columbus, GA-AL (Harris County, GA and Russell County,
                Alabama not in sample)
18140   Columbus, OH (Morrow County not in sample)
18580   Corpus Christi, TX
19100   Dallas-Fort Worth-Arlington, TX (Delta and Hunt Counties not in sample)
19340   Davenport-Moline-Rock Island, IA-IL
19380   Dayton, OH
19460   Decatur, Al
19500   Decatur, IL
19660   Deltona-Daytona Beach-Ormond Beach, FL
19740   Denver-Aurora, CO
19780   Des Moines, IA
19820   Detroit-Warren-Livonia, MI
20100   Dover, DE
20260   Duluth, MN-WI (Carlton County, MN not in sample, WI portion not
                identified)
20500   Durham, NC
20740   Eau Claire, WI
20940   El Centro, CA
21340   El Paso, TX
21500   Erie, PA
21660   Eugene-Springfield, OR
21780   Evansville, IN-KY (Gibson County, IN and Kentucky portion not in
                sample)
22020   Fargo, ND-MN (MN portion not identified)
22140   Farmington, NM
22180   Fayetteville, NC
22220   Fayetteville-Springdale-Rogers, AR-MO (Madison County, AR and
                Missouri portion not in sample)
22420   Flint, MI
22460   Florence, AL
22660   Fort Collins-Loveland, CO
22900   Fort Smith, AR-OK (Oklahoma portion not in sample)
23020   Fort Walton Beach-Crestview-Destin, FL
23060   Fort Wayne, IN
23420   Fresno, CA
23540   Gainesville, FL (Gilchrist County not in sample)
24340   Grand Rapids-Wyoming, MI

                                 11-3
FIPS
Code    Metropolitan (CBSA) TITLE

24540   Greeley, CO
24580   Green Bay, WI (Oconto County not in sample)
24660   Greensboro-High Point, NC
24860   Greenville, SC (Laurens and Pickens Counties not in sample)
25060   Gulfport-Biloxi, MS (Stone County not in sample)
25180   Hagerstown-Martinsburg, MD-WV (Berkeley County, WV not identified
                and Morgan County, WV not in sample)
25420   Harrisburg-Carlisle, PA
25500   Harrisonburg, VA
25860   Hickory-Morganton-Lenoir, NC (Caldwell County not in sample)
26100   Holland-Grand Haven, MI
26180   Honolulu, HI
26420   Houston-Baytown-Sugar Land, TX
26580   Huntington-Ashland, WV-KY-OH (Kentucky and Ohio portions not identified)
26620   Huntsville, AL
26900   Indianapolis, IN
26980   Iowa City, IA (Washington County not in sample)
27100   Jackson, MI
27140   Jackson, MS
27260   Jacksonville, FL
27340   Jacksonville, NC
27500   Janesville, WI
27740   Johnson City, TN
27780   Johnstown, PA
27900   Joplin, MO
28020   Kalamazoo-Portage, MI
28100   Kankakee-Bradley, IL
28140   Kansas City, MO-KS (Franklin, KS; Leavenworth, KS; Linn, KS; Bates,
                MO; and Caldwell, MO Counties not in sample)
28660   Killeen-Temple-Fort Hood, TX
28700   Kingsport-Bristol, TN-VA (Virginia portion not identified)
28740   Kingston, NY
28940   Knoxville, TN (Anderson County not in sample)
29100   La Crosse, WI-MN (Houston County not in sample)
29180   Lafayette, LA
29340   Lake Charles, LA (Cameron Parish not in sample)
29460   Lakeland-Winter Haven, FL
29540   Lancaster, PA
29620   Lansing-East Lansing, MI
29700   Laredo, TX
29740   Las Cruces, NM
29820   Las Vegas-Paradise, NV
29940   Lawrence, KS
30020   Lawton, OK
30460   Lexington-Fayette, KY
30780   Little Rock-North Little Rock, AR (Perry County not in sample)
30980   Longview, TX (Rusk and Upshur Counties not in sample)
31100   Los Angeles-Long Beach-Santa Ana, CA
31140   Louisville, KY-IN (Washington, IN; Henry, KY; Nelson, KY; Shelby,
                KY; and Trimble, KY Counties not in sample)

                               11-4
FIPS
Code    Metropolitan (CBSA) TITLE

31180   Lubbock, TX (Crosby County not in sample)
31340   Lynchburg, VA (Appomattox and Bedford Counties and Bedford City not
                 In sample)
31420   Macon,, GA (Crawford, Monroe, and Twiggs Counties not in sample)
31460   Madera, CA
31540   Madison, WI (Iowa County not in sample)
32580   McAllen-Edinburg-Pharr, TX
32780   Medford, OR
32820   Memphis, TN-MS-AR (Arkansas portion not identified and Tunica
                 County, MS not in sample)
32900   Merced, CA
33100   Miami-Fort Lauderdale-Miami Beach, FL
33140   Michigan City-La Porte, IN
33260   Midland, TX
33340   Milwaukee-Waukesha-West Allis, WI
33460   Minneapolis-St Paul-Bloomington, MN-WI (Wisconsin portion not
                 identified)
33660   Mobile, AL
33700   Modesto, CA
33740   Monroe, LA
33780   Monroe, MI
33860   Montgomery, AL
34740   Muskegon-Norton Shores, MI
34820   Myrtle Beach-Conway-North Myrtle Beach, SC
34900   Napa, CA
34940   Naples-Marco Island, FL
34980   Nashville-Davidson-Murfreesboro, TN (Cannon, Hickman and Macon
                 Counties not in sample)
35380   New Orleans-Metairie-Kenner, LA
35620   New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-PA (Pennsylvania
                 portion not in sample. White Plains central city recoded to
                 balance of metropolitan)
35660   Niles-Benton Harbor, MI
36100   Ocala, FL
36140   Ocean City, NJ
36260   Ogden-Clearfield, UT
36420   Oklahoma City, OK
36500   Olympia, WA
36540   Omaha-Council Bluffs, NE-IA
36740   Orlando, FL
36780   Oshkosh-Neenah, WI
37100   Oxnard-Thousand Oaks-Ventura, CA
37340   Palm Bay-Melbourne-Titusville, FL
37460   Panama City-Lynn Haven, FL
37860   Pensacola-Ferry Pass-Brent, FL
37900   Peoria, IL
37980   Philadelphia-Camden-Wilmington, PA-NJ-DE
38060   Phoenix-Mesa-Scottsdale, AZ
38300   Pittsburgh, PA


                                11-5
FIPS
Code    Metropolitan (CBSA) TITLE

38900   Portland-Vancouver-Beaverton, OR-WA (Yamhill County,
                 OR not in sample)
38940   Port St. Lucie-Fort Pierce, FL
39100   Poughkeepsie-Newburgh-Middletown, NY
39140   Prescott, AZ
39340   Provo-Orem, UT (Juab County not in sample)
39380   Pueblo, CO
39460   Punta Gorda, FL
39540   Racine, WI
39580   Raleigh-Cary, NC
39740   Reading, PA
39900   Reno-Sparks, NV
40060   Richmond, VA (Cumberland County not in sample)
40140   Riverside-San Bernardino-Ontario, CA
40220   Roanoke, VA (Craig and Franklin Counties not in sample)
40380   Rochester, NY
40420   Rockford, IL
40900   Sacramento--Arden-Arcade–Roseville, CA
40980   Saginaw-Saginaw Township North, MI
41060   St. Cloud, MN
41180   St. Louis, MO-IL (Calhoun County, IL not in sample)
41420   Salem, OR
41500   Salinas, CA
41540   Salisbury, MD
41620   Salt Lake City, UT (Tooele County not in sample)
41700   San Antonio, TX
41740   San Diego-Carlsbad-San Marcos, CA
41860   San Francisco-Oakland-Fremont, CA
41940   San Jose-Sunnyvale-Santa Clara, CA
42020   San Luis Obispo-Paso Robles, CA
42060   Santa Barbara-Santa Maria-Goleta, CA
42100   Santa Cruz-Watsonville, CA
42140   Santa Fe, NM
42220   Santa Rosa-Petaluma, CA
42260   Sarasota-Bradenton-Venice, FL
42340   Savannah, GA
42540   Scranton-Wilkes-Barre, PA
42660   Seattle-Tacoma-Bellevue, WA
43340   Shreveport-Bossier City, LA
43620   Sioux Falls, SD
43780   South Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI (Michigan portion not identified)
43900   Spartanburg, SC
44060   Spokane, WA
44100   Springfield, IL
44180   Springfield, MO (Dallas and Polk Counties not in sample)
44220   Springfield, OH
44700   Stockton, CA
45060   Syracuse, NY
45220   Tallahassee, FL
45300   Tampa-St. Petersburg-Clearwater, FL

                                11-6
FIPS
Code    Metropolitan (CBSA) TITLE

45780   Toledo, OH (Ottawa County not in sample)
45820   Topeka, KS (Jackson and Jefferson Counties not in sample)
45940   Trenton-Ewing, NJ
46060   Tucson, AZ
46140   Tulsa, OK (Okmulgee County not in sample)
46220   Tuscaloosa, AL (Greene and Hale Counties not in sample)
46540   Utica-Rome, NY
46660   Valdosta, GA (Lanier County not in sample)
46700   Vallejo-Fairfield, CA
46940   Vero Beach, FL
47020   Victoria, TX
47220   Vineland-Millville-Bridgeton, NJ
47260   Virginia Beach-Norfolk-Newport News, VA-NC (North Carolina portion
                not identified)
47300   Visalia-Porterville, CA
47380   Waco, TX
47580   Warner Robins, GA
47900   Washington-Arlington-Alexandria, DC-VA-MD-WV (West Virginia
                portion not identified. Reston central city recoded to balance of
                metropolitan.)
47940   Waterloo-Cedar Falls, IA (Grundy County not in sample)
48140   Wausau, WI
48620   Wichita, KS
49180   Winston-Salem, NC
49420   Yakima, WA
49620   York-Hanover, PA
49660   Youngstown-Warren-Boardman, OH-PA (Pennsylvania portion not in sample)
70750   Bangor, ME
70900   Barnstable Town, MA
71650   Boston-Cambridge-Quincy, MA-NH
71950   Bridgeport-Stamford-Norwalk, CT
72400   Burlington-South Burlington, VT
72850   Danbury, CT
73450   Hartford-West Hartford-East Hartford, CT
74500   Leominster-Fitchburg-Gardner, MA
75700   New Haven, CT
76450   Norwich-New London, CT-RI (RI portion recoded to Providence NECTA)
76750   Portland-South Portland, ME
77200   Providence-Fall River-Warwick, RI-MA
77350   Rochester-Dover, NH-ME (Maine portion not identified)
78100   Springfield, MA-CT (Connecticut portion not identified)
78700   Waterbury, CT
79600   Worcester, MA-CT (Connecticut portion not identified)




                                11-7
                LIST 2: FIPS Consolidated Statistical Area (CSA) Codes

The following CSA’s (Combined Statistical Areas) contain 2 or more Metropolitan Statistical Areas that
are in the CPS sample and are individually identified on the public use files. Micropolitan Statistical
Areas are not specifically identified in the CPS and are not used to identify CSA’s nor are parts of such
areas coded as belonging to CSA’s. The component CBSA’s identified on the CPS Public Use Files are
listed for each CSA. See the component CBSA listing for any notes concerning the areas in sample and
identified on the files.


CSA             CBSA            CSA Title
Code            Code                 Component Parts (CBSA’s)

118                             Appleton-Oshkosh-Neenah, WI
                11540                  Appleton, WI
                36780                  Oshkosh-Neenah, WI

176                             Chicago-Naperville-Michigan City, IL-IN-WI (part)
                16980                  Chicago-Naperville-Joliet, IL-IN-WI
                28100                  Kankakee-Bradley, IL
                33140                  Michigan City-LaPorte, IN

184                             Cleveland-Akron-Elyria, OH (part)
                10420                  Akron, OH
                17460                  Cleveland-Elyria-Mentor, OH

212                             Dayton-Springfield-Greenville, OH (part)
                19380                  Dayton, OH
                44220                  Springfield, OH

216                             Denver-Aurora-Boulder, CO
                14500                  Boulder, CO
                19740                  Denver-Aurora, CO

220                             Detroit-Warren-Flint, MI
                11460                   Ann Arbor, MI
                19820                   Detroit-Warren-Livonia, MI
                22420                   Flint, MI
                33780                   Monroe, MI

260                             Fresno-Madera, CA
                23420                  Fresno, CA
                31460                  Madera, CA

266                             Grand Rapids-Muskegon-Holland, MI (part)
                24340                  Grand Rapids-Wyoming, MI
                26100                  Holland-Grand Haven, MI
                34740                  Muskegon-Norton Shores, MI




                                                   11-8
CSA    CBSA    CSA Title
Code   Code         Component Parts (CBSA’s)

268            Greensboro--Winston-Salem–High Point, NC (part)
       24660          Greensboro-High Point, NC
       49180          Winston-Salem, NC

272            Greenville-Anderson-Seneca, SC (part)
       11340          Anderson, SC
       24860          Greenville, SC

290            Huntsville-Decatur, AL
       19460          Decatur, AL,
       26620          Huntsville, AL

294            Indianapolis-Anderson-Columbus, IN (part)
       11300           Anderson, IN
       26900           Indianapolis, IN

304            Johnson City-Kingsport-Bristol, TN-VA (part)
       27740          Johnson City, TN
       28700          Kingsport-Bristol, TN-VA

348            Los Angeles-Long Beach-Riverside, CA
       31100          Los Angeles-Long Beach-Santa Ana, CA
       37100          Oxnard-Thousand Oaks-Ventura, CA
       40140          Riverside-San Bernardino-Ontario, CA

356            Macon-Warner Robins-Fort Valley, GA (part)
       31420         Macon, GA
       47580         Warner Robins, GA

376            Milwaukee-Racine-Waukesha, WI
       33340         Milwaukee-Waukesha-West Allis, WI
       39540         Racine, WI

378            Minneapolis-St. Paul-Bloomington, MN-WI (part)
       33460         Minneapolis-St. Paul-Bloomington, MN
       41060         St. Cloud, MN

408            New York-Newark-Bridgeport, NY-NJ-CT-PA (part)
       71950         Bridgeport-Stamford-Norwalk, CT NECTA*
       28740         Kingston, NY
       75700         New Haven, CT NECTA*
       35620         New York-Newark-Edison, NY-NJ-PA
       39100         Poughkeepsie-Newburgh-Middletown, NY
       45940         Trenton-Ewing, NJ

428            Philadelphia-Camden-Vineland, PA-NJ-DE-MD (part)
       37980           Philadelphia-Camden-Wilmington, PA-NJ-DE-MD
       47220           Vineland-Millville-Bridgeton, NJ



                                11-9
CSA            CBSA           CSA Title
Code           Code                Component Parts (CBSA’s)

450                           Raleigh-Durham-Cary, NC (part)
               20500                 Durham, NC
               39580                 Raleigh-Cary, NC

472                           Sacramento-Arden-Arcade-Truckee, CA-NV (part)
               40900                 Sacramento-Arden-Arcade-Roseville, CA

482                           Salt Lake City-Ogden-Clearfield, UT (part)
               36260                  Ogden-Clearfield, UT
               41620                  Salt Lake City, UT

488                           San Jose-San Francisco-Oakland, CA
               34900                  Napa, CA
               41860                  San Francisco-Oakland-Fremont, CA
               41949                  San Jose-Sunnyvale-Santa Clara, CA
               42100                  Santa Cruz-Watsonville, CA
               42220                  Santa Rosa-Petaluma, CA
               46700                  Vallejo-Fairfield, CA

500                           Seattle-Tacoma-Olympia, WA part
               14740                  Bremerton-Silverdale, WA
               36500                  Olympia, WA
               42660                  Seattle-Tacoma-Bellevue, WA

548                           Washington-Baltimore-Northern Virginia, DC-MD-VA-WV (part)
               12580                Baltimore-Towson, MD
               47900                Washington-Arlington-Alexandria, DC-VA-MD-WV

715                           Boston-Worcester-Manchester, MA-NH-CT-ME (part) (The
                              Manchester, NH and Portsmouth, NH-ME NECTA’s are not individually
                              identified on the files, but these records are coded as being in the
                              Combined New England City and Town Areas {CNECTA). The
                              Connecticut and Maine portions of this CNECTA are not identified.)
               71650                   Boston-Cambridge-Quincy, MA-NH NECTA
               74500                   Leominster-Fitchburg-Gardner, MA NECTA
               79600                   Worcester, MA-CT NECTA

720                           Bridgeport-New Haven-Stamford, CT
               71950                 Bridgeport-Stamford-Norwalk, CT NECTA*
               72850                 Danbury, CT NECTA
               75700                 New Haven, CT NECTA*
               78700                 Waterbury, CT NECTA


* These 2 NECTA’s appear in both the New York City CSA (using the county based CBSA definitions)
and the Bridgeport-New Haven-Stamford CNECTA (using the NECTA definitions). They are coded on
the public use file in the GTCSA field as being in the Bridgeport-New Haven-Stamford CNECTA. If you
want to add them to the New York City CSA, you’ll need to add them in using the appropriate GTCBSA
codes.


                                              11-10
                                 List 3: Individual Principal Cities

Please Note: You must use the CBSA code in combination with the city code to uniquely identify
principal cities. If a county name is provided, you must incorporate the county code into any algorithm
used to tabulate a specific city’s characteristics. The same applies to state codes for multi-state CBSA’s.


CBSA                     Title
Code                             City                                              GTINDVPC

38060                    Phoenix-Mesa-Scottsdale, AZ
                                Phoenix                                                    1
                                Mesa                                                       2
                                Scottsdale                                                 3
                                Tempe                                                      4

31100                    Los Angeles-Long Beach-Santa Ana, CA
                                Los Angeles County
                                       Los Angeles                                         1
                                       Long Beach                                          2
                                       Glendale                                            3
                                       Pomona                                              4
                                       Torrance                                            5
                                       Pasadena                                            6
                                       Burbank                                             7
                                Orange County
                                       Santa Ana                                           1
                                       Anaheim                                             2
                                       Irvine                                              3
                                       Orange                                              4
                                       Fullerton                                           5
                                       Costa Mesa                                          6

37100                    Oxnard-Thousand Oaks-Ventura, CA
                                Oxnard                                                     1
                                Thousand Oaks                                              2

40140                    Riverside-San Bernardino-Ontario, CA
                                 Riverside                                                 1
                                 San Bernardino                                            2
                                 Ontario                                                   3

40900                    Sacramento–Arden-Arcade–Roseville, CA
                                Sacramento                                                 1

41740                    San Diego-Carlsbad-San Marcos, CA
                                San Diego                                                  1




                                                   11-11
CBSA    Title
Code            City                               GTINDVPC

41860   San Francisco-Oakland-Fremont, CA
               San Francisco County
                       San Francisco                   1
               Alameda County
                       Oakland                         1
                       Fremont                         2
                       Hayward                         3
                       Berkeley                        4

41940   San Jose-Sunnyvale-Santa Clara, CA
                San Jose                               1
                Sunnyvale                              2
                Santa Clara                            3

71950   Bridgeport-Stamford-Norwalk, CT
               Bridgeport                              1
               Stamford                                2

73450   Hartford-West Hartford-East Hartford, CT
                Hartford                               1

19740   Denver-Aurora, CO
               Denver                                  1

33100   Miami-Fort Lauderdale-Miami Beach, FL
              Broward County
                      Fort Lauderdale                  1
              Miami-Dade County
                      Miami                            1

45300   Tampa-St. Petersburg-Clearwater, FL
              Pinellas County
                       St. Petersburg                  1

12060   Atlanta-Sandy Springs-Marietta, GA
                Atlanta                                1

16980   Chicago-Naperville-Joliet, IL-IN-WI
               Chicago                                 1
               Naperville                              2
               Joliet                                  3

28140   Kansas City, MO-KS
               Kansas portion
                      Kansas City                      1
                      Overland Park                    2

35380   New Orleans-Metairie-Kenner, LA
              New Orleans                              1


                                11-12
CBSA    Title
Code            City                                     GTINDVPC

71650   Boston-Cambridge-Quincy, MA-NH
               Massachusetts portion
                      Boston                                 1
                      Cambridge                              2

19820   Detroit-Warren-Livonia, MI
                Wayne County
                       Detroit                               1
                       Livonia                               2
                Macomb County
                       Warren                                1

33460   Minneapolis-St., Paul-Bloomington, MN-WI
              Minneapolis                                    1

29820   Las Vegas-Paradise, NV
               Las Vegas                                     1
               Paradise                                      2

35620   New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-PA
              New Jersey portion
                     Newark                                  1

15380   Buffalo-Niagara Falls, NY
                Buffalo                                      1

16740   Charlotte-Gastonia-Concord, NC-SC
                Charlotte                                    1

77200   Providence-Fall River-Warwick, RI-MA
               Rhode Island portion
                        Providence                           1

19100   Dallas-Fort Worth-Arlington, TX
                Dallas                                       1
                Fort Worth                                   2
                Carrollton                                   3
                Plano                                        4
                Irving                                       5
                Arlington                                    6

26420   Houston-Baytown-Sugar Land, TX
               Houston                                       1

32580   McAllen-Edinburg-Pharr, TX
              McAllen                                        1




                                 11-13
CBSA    Title
Code            City                                   GTINDVPC

47260   Virginia Beach-Norfolk-Newport News, VA-NC
                Virginia portion
                        Virginia Beach                     1
                        Norfolk                            2
                        Newport News                       3
                        Hampton                            4
                        Portsmouth                         5

47900   Washington-Arlington-Alexandria, DC-VA-MD-WV
              Virginia portion only
                      Arlington                            1
                      Alexandria                           2

42660   Seattle-Tacoma-Bellevue, WA
                Seattle                                    1
                Tacoma                                     2
                Bellevue                                   3

33340   Milwaukee-Waukesha-West Allis, WI
              Milwaukee                                    1




                              11-14
                                    List 4: FIPS County Codes

Please note that these county codes must be used in conjunction with state codes to create unique county
identifiers as county codes start with 001 in each state.


FIPS
County                  County
Code                    Name                    State

                                                Alabama

003                     Baldwin*
015                     Calhoun
073                     Jefferson
097                     Mobile
117                     Shelby

                                                Arizona

003                     Cochise*
013                     Maricopa
015                     Mohave*
019                     Pima
021                     Pinal
025                     Yavapai

                                               Arkansas

119                     Pulaski

                                               California

001                     Alameda
007                     Butte
017                     El Dorado
019                     Fresno
025                     Imperial
029                     Kern
037                     Los Angeles
039                     Madera
047                     Merced
053                     Monterey
055                     Napa
059                     Orange
061                     Placer
067                     Sacramento
071                     San Bernardino
073                     San Diego
075                     San Francisco
077                     San Joaquin
                                                  11-15
FIPS
County   County
Code     Name                    State

079      San Luis Obispo
081      San Mateo
083      Santa Barbara
087      Santa Cruz
095      Solano
097      Sonoma
099      Stanislaus
107      Tulare
111      Ventura
113      Yolo

                                Colorado

013      Boulder
031      Denver
035      Douglas
059      Jefferson
069      Larimer
101      Pueblo
123      Weld

                                Delaware

001      Kent
003      New Castle
005      Sussex*

                           District of Columbia

001      District of Columbia

                                 Florida

001      Alachua
005      Bay
009      Brevard
011      Broward
015      Charlotte
019      Clay
021      Collier
053      Hernando
057      Hillsborough
061      Indian River
069      Lake
071      Lee
083      Marion
086      Miami-Dade
091      Okaloosa
095      Orange

                                  11-16
FIPS
County   County
Code     Name         State

097      Osceola
099      Palm Beach
101      Pasco
103      Pinellas
105      Polk
109      St. Johns
117      Seminole
127      Volusia

                      Georgia

057      Cherokee
063      Clayton
135      Gwinnett
151      Henry
153      Houston

                      Hawaii

001      Hawaii*
003      Honolulu

                      Idaho

055      Kootenai

                      Illinois

091      Kankakee
099      LaSalle
111      McHenry
113      McLean
115      Macon
119      Madison
163      St. Clair
179      Tazewell

                      Indiana

057      Hamilton
063      Hendricks
081      Johnson
089      Lake
091      LaPorte
095      Madison
141      St. Joseph




                       11-17
FIPS
County   County
Code     Name                State

                              Iowa

103      Johnson
113      Linn
153      Polk
163      Scott

                             Kansas

045      Douglas
173      Sedgwick

                            Kentucky

067      Fayette
111      Jefferson
117      Kenton

                            Louisiana

019      Calcasieu
033      East Baton Rouge
051      Jefferson
071      Orleans
103      St. Tammany

                             Maine

011      Kennebec

                            Maryland

003      Anne Arundel
013      Carroll
017      Charles
025      Harford
027      Howard
033      Prince Georges
043      Washington




                              11-18
FIPS
County   County
Code     Name           State

                       Michigan

005      Allegan*
021      Berrien
049      Genesee
075      Jackson
081      Kent
099      Macomb
115      Monroe
121      Muskegon
125      Oakland
139      Ottawa
145      Saginaw
147      St. Clair
161      Washtenaw
163      Wayne

                       Minnesota

003      Anoka
037      Dakota
123      Ramsey
137      St. Louis
163      Washington

                       Missouri

019      Boone
099      Jefferson
189      St. Louis

                       Montana

111      Yellowstone

                       Nebraska

153      Sarpy

                        Nevada

003      Clark




                         11-19
FIPS
County   County
Code     Name           State

                       New Jersey

001      Atlantic
003      Bergen
005      Burlington
007      Camden
011      Cumberland
013      Essex
017      Hudson
019      Hunterdon
021      Mercer
025      Monmouth
027      Morris
029      Ocean
035      Somerset
037      Sussex
041      Warren

                       New Mexico

001      Bernalillo
013      Dona Ana
045      San Juan
049      Santa Fe

                       New York

005      Bronx
013      Chautauqua*
027      Dutchess
047      Kings
055      Monroe
059      Nassau
061      New York
067      Onondaga
069      Ontario
071      Orange
081      Queens
085      Richmond
103      Suffolk
111      Ulster
119      Westchester




                         11-20
FIPS
County   County
Code     Name             State

                       North Carolina

057      Davidson*
067      Forsyth
097      Iredell*
119      Mecklenburg
133      Onslow
155      Robeson*
179      Union
183      Wake

                       North Dakota

017      Cass

                           Ohio

023      Clark
025      Clermont
029      Columbiana*
035      Cuyahoga
041      Delaware
045      Fairfield
049      Franklin
089      Licking
095      Lucas
103      Medina
133      Portage
153      Summit
165      Warren
169      Wayne*

                         Oklahoma

031      Comanche

                          Oregon

017      Deschutes
029      Jackson
039      Lane
043      Linn*




                           11-21
FIPS
County   County
Code     Name              State

                        Pennsylvania

003      Allegheny
007      Beaver
013      Blair
011      Berks
017      Bucks
019      Butler
021      Cambria
029      Chester
045      Delaware
049      Erie
055      Franklin*
071      Lancaster
089      Monroe*
091      Montgomery
101      Philadelphia
125      Washington
129      Westmoreland
133      York

                        South Carolina

007      Anderson
045      Greenville
051      Horry
063      Lexington
079      Richland
083      Spartanburg

                          Tennessee

093      Knox
165      Sumner
187      Williamson




                            11-22
FIPS
County   County
Code     Name                   State

                                 Texas

029      Bexar
039      Brazoria
139      Ellis
141      El Paso
183      Gregg
215      Hidago
251      Johnson
303      Lubbock
309      McLennan
329      Midland
439      Tarrant
479      Webb

                                 Utah

049      Utah

                                Virginia

013      Arlington
041      Chesterfield
059      Fairfax
087      Henrico
107      Loudoun
153      Prince William
510      Alexandria City
550      Chesapeake City
650      Hampton City
700      Newport News City
710      Norfolk City
740      Portsmouth City
760      Richmond City
810      Virginia Beach City

                               Washington

033      King
035      Kitsap
063      Spokane
067      Thurston
073      Whatcom
077      Yakima




                                 11-23
FIPS
County                  County
Code                    Name                    State

                                               Wisconsin

063                     La Crosse
073                     Marathon
101                     Racine
105                     Rock
139                     Winnebago


* Counties marked with an asterisk (*) are also single county Micropolitan Statistical Areas. They are not
otherwise identified on the files. A list of such areas on the file is as follows:


CBSA                                                             County          County
Code            Title                                            Name            Code

10540           Albany-Lebanon, OR                               Linn            043
10880           Allegan, MI                                      Allegan         005
16540           Chambersburg, PA                                 Franklin        055
19300           Daphne-Fairhope, AL                              Baldwin         003
20620           East Liverpool-Salem, OH                         Columbiana      029
20700           East Stroudsburg, PA                             Monroe          089
25900           Hilo, HI                                         Hawaii          001
27460           Jamestown-Dunkirk-Fredonia, NY                   Chautauqua      013
29420           Lake Havasu City-Kingman, AZ                     Mohave          015
30540           Lexington-Thomasville, NC                        Davidson        057
31300           Lumberton, NC                                    Robeson         155
42580           Seaford, DE                                      Sussex          005
43420           Sierra Vista-Douglas, AZ                         Cochise         003
44380           Statesville-Mooresville, NC                      Iredell         097
49300           Wooster, OH                                      Wayne           169




                                                  11-24
                                         ATTACHMENT 12

                               Topcoding of Usual Hourly Earnings

       This variable will be topcoded based on an individual’s usual hours worked variable, if the
individual’s edited usual weekly earnings variable is $999. The topcode is computed such that the
product of usual hours times usual hourly wage does not exceed an annualized wage of $150,000
($2,885.00 per week). Below is a list of the appropriate topcode.

 Hours        Topcode                Hours        Topcode                  Hours        Topcode

    1          None                    34            $84.85                  67          $43.06
    2          None                    35            $82.43                  68          $42.43
    3          None                    36            $80.14                  69          $41.81
    4          None                    37            $77.97                  70          $41.21
    5          None                    38            $75.92                  71          $40.63
    6          None                    39            $73.97                  72          $40.07
    7          None                    40            $72.13                  73          $39.52
    8          None                    41            $70.37                  74          $38.99
    9          None                    42            $68.69                  75          $38.47
   10          None                    43            $67.09                  76          $37.96
   11          None                    44            $65.57                  77          $37.47
   12          None                    45            $64.11                  78          $36.99
   13          None                    46            $62.72                  79          $36.52
   14          None                    47            $61.38                  80          $36.06
   15          None                    48            $60.10                  81          $35.62
   16          None                    49            $58.88                  82          $35.18
   17          None                    50            $57.70                  83          $34.76
   18          None                    51            $56.57                  84          $34.35
   19          None                    52            $55.48                  85          $33.94
   20          None                    53            $54.43                  86          $33.55
   21          None                    54            $53.43                  87          $33.16
   22          None                    55            $52.45                  88          $32.78
   23          None                    56            $51.52                  89          $32.42
   24          None                    57            $50.61                  90          $32.06
   25          None                    58            $49.74                  91          $31.70
   26          None                    59            $48.90                  92          $31.36
   27          None                    60            $48.08                  93          $31.02
   28          None                    61            $47.30                  94          $30.69
   29         $99.48                   62            $46.53                  95          $30.37
   30         $96.17                   63            $45.79                  96          $30.05
   31         $93.06                   64            $45.08                  97          $29.74
   32         $90.16                   65            $44.38                  98          $29.44
   33         $87.42                   66            $43.71                  99          $29.14




                                              12-1
                            ATTACHMENT 13

                     CURRENT POPULATION SURVEY

               November 2013 Civic Engagement Supplement File
                        Tallies of Unweighted Counts


ITEM    VALUE        DESCRIPTION                                TALLIES

PES1       1         Always vote                                  13,326
           2         Sometimes vote                                9,626
           3         Rarely vote                                   3,685
           4         Never vote                                   10,309
          -1         Not in Universe                              99,747
          -2         Don't Know                                      211
          -3         Refused                                       1,444
          -9         No Response                                  11,719

PES2A      1         Yes                                           4,701
           2         No                                           32,118
          -1         Not in Universe                              11,466
          -2         Don't Know                                      210
          -3         Refused                                       1,473
          -9         No Response                                      99

PES5A      1         Yes                                           5,386
           2         No                                           31,299
          -1         Not in Universe                             111,466
          -2         Don't Know                                      167
          -3         Refused                                       1,534
          -9         No Response                                     215

PES7       1         Yes                                           4,142
           2         No                                           32,450
          -1         Not in Universe                             111,466
          -2         Don't Know                                      150
          -3         Refused                                       1,590
          -9         No Response                                     269




                                       13-1
ITEM    VALUE   DESCRIPTION              TALLIES

PES11      1    Basically every day         3,404
           2    A few times a week          6,954
           3    A few times a month         6,975
           4    Once a month                3,629
           5    Less than once a month      5,480
           6    Not at all                  9,434
          -1    Not in Universe           111,466
          -2    Don't Know                    549
          -3    Refused                     1,864
          -9    No Response                   312

PES13      1    Basically every day        14,635
           2    A few times a week         13,022
           3    A few times a month         5,264
           4    Once a month                1,255
           5    Less than once a month        920
           6    Not at all                    931
          -1    Not in Universe           111,466
          -2    Don't Know                    356
          -3    Refused                     1,865
          -9    No Response                   353

PES18      1    All the people              4,446
           2    Most of the people         10,748
           3    Some of the people          8,335
           4    None of the people          2,001
          -1    Not in Universe           122,501
          -2    Don't Know                    448
          -3    Refused                     1,231
          -9    No Response                   357




                               13-2
                                 ATTACHMENT 14

                       COUNTRIES AND AREAS OF THE WORLD

                              Current Population Survey

                                 Starting May 2012



Code   Name                                       Code    Name

057    United States                               158    Armenia
060    American Samoa                              159    Azerbaijan
066    Guam                                        160    Belarus
069    Northern Marianas                           161    Georgia
073    Puerto Rico                                 162    Moldova
078    U. S. Virgin Islands                        163    Russia
100    Albania                                     164    Ukraine
102    Austria                                     165    USSR
103    Belgium                                     166    Europe, not specified
104    Bulgaria                                    168    Montenegro
105    Czechoslovakia                              200    Afghanistan
106    Denmark                                     202    Bangladesh
108    Finland                                     203    Bhutan
109    France                                      205    Myanmar (Burma)
110    Germany                                     206    Cambodia
116    Greece                                      207    China
117    Hungary                                     209    Hong Kong
118    Iceland                                     210    India
119    Ireland                                     211    Indonesia
120    Italy                                       212    Iran
126    Netherlands                                 213    Iraq
127    Norway                                      214    Israel
128    Poland                                      215    Japan
129    Portugal                                    216    Jordan
130    Azores                                      217    Korea
132    Romania                                     218    Kazakhstan
134    Spain                                       220    South Korea
136    Sweden                                      222    Kuwait
137    Switzerland                                 223    Laos
138    United Kingdom                              224    Lebanon
139    England                                     226    Malaysia
140    Scotland                                    228    Mongolia
142    Northern Ireland                            229    Nepal
147    Yugoslavia                                  231    Pakistan
148    Czech Republic                              233    Philippines
149    Slovakia                                    235    Saudi Arabia
150    Bosnia & Herzegovina                        236    Singapore
151    Croatia                                     238    Sri Lanka
152    Macedonia                                   239    Syria
154    Serbia                                      240    Taiwan
155    Estonia                                     242    Thailand
156    Latvia                                      243    Turkey
157    Lithuania                                   245    United Arab Emirates

                                        14-1
Code   Name                                    Code   Name

246    Uzbekistan                              373     Venezuela
247    Vietnam                                 374      South America, not specified
248    Yemen                                   399    Americas, not specified
249    Asia, not specified                     400    Algeria
300    Bermuda                                 407    Cameroon
301    Canada                                  408    Cape Verde
303    Mexico                                  412    Congo
310    Belize                                  414    Egypt
311    Costa Rica                              416    Ethiopia
312    El Salvador                             417    Eritrea
313    Guatemala                               421    Ghana
314    Honduras                                423    Guinea
315    Nicaragua                               425    Ivory Coast
316    Panama                                  427    Kenya
321    Antigua and Barbuda                     429    Liberia
323    Bahamas                                 430    Libya
324    Barbados                                436    Morocco
327    Cuba                                    440    Nigeria
328    Dominica                                444    Senegal
329    Dominican Republic                      447    Sierra Leone
330    Grenada                                 448    Somalia
332    Haiti                                   449    South Africa
333    Jamaica                                 451    Sudan
338    St. Kitts--Nevis                        453    Tanzania
339    St. Lucia                               454    Togo
340    St. Vincent and the Grenadines          457    Uganda
341    Trinidad and Tobago                     459    Zaire
343    West Indies, not specified              460    Zambia
360    Argentina                               461    Zimbabwe
361    Bolivia                                 462    Africa, not specified
362    Brazil                                  501    Australia
363    Chile                                   508    Fiji
364    Columbia                                511    Marshall Islands
365    Ecuador                                 512    Micronesia
368    Guyana                                  515    New Zealand
369    Paraguay                                523    Tonga
370    Peru                                    527    Samoa
372    Uruguay                                 555    Elsewhere




                                        14-2
                                      ATTACHMENT 15

                                    ALLOCATION FLAGS

                                 Current Population Survey


For every edited item, there is a corresponding allocation flag with the prefix "PX". The last six
characters of the names are the same. For example, PXMLR is the allocation flag for PEMLR.
All allocation flags have the following list of possible values.


                00      VALUE - NO CHANGE
                01      BLANK - NO CHANGE
                02      DON'T KNOW - NO CHANGE
                03      REFUSED - NO CHANGE
                10      VALUE TO VALUE
                11      BLANK TO VALUE
                12      DON'T KNOW TO VALUE
                13      REFUSED TO VALUE
                20      VALUE TO LONGITUDINAL VALUE
                21      BLANK TO LONGITUDINAL VALUE
                22      DON'T KNOW TO LONGITUDINAL VALUE
                23      REFUSED TO LONGITUDINAL VALUE
                30      VALUE TO ALLOCATED VALUE LONG.
                31      BLANK TO ALLOCATED VALUE LONG.
                32      DON'T KNOW TO ALLOCATED VALUE LONG.
                33      REFUSED TO ALLOCATED VALUE LONG.
                40      VALUE TO ALLOCATED VALUE
                41      BLANK TO ALLOCATED VALUE
                42      DON'T KNOW TO ALLOCATED VALUE
                43      REFUSED TO ALLOCATED VALUE
                50      VALUE TO BLANK
                52      DON'T KNOW TO BLANK
                53      REFUSED TO BLANK




                                               15-1
                                             ATTACHMENT 16

                          Source and Accuracy Statement for the
                   November 2013 CPS Microdata File on Civic Engagement


SOURCE OF THE DATA

The data in this microdata file are from the November 2013 Current Population Survey (CPS).
The U.S. Census Bureau conducts the CPS every month, although this file has only November
data. The November survey uses two sets of questions, the basic CPS and a set of supplemental
questions. The CPS, sponsored jointly by the Census Bureau and the U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics, is the country’s primary source of labor force statistics for the entire population. The
Corporation for National and Community Service sponsors the supplemental questions for
November.

Basic CPS. The monthly CPS collects primarily labor force data about the civilian
noninstitutionalized population living in the United States. The institutionalized population,
which is excluded from the population universe, is composed primarily of the population in
correctional institutions and nursing homes (98 percent of the 4.0 million institutionalized people
in Census 2010). Interviewers ask questions concerning labor force participation about each
member 15 years old and over in sample households. Typically, the week containing the
nineteenth of the month is the interview week. The week containing the twelfth is the reference
week (i.e., the week about which the labor force questions are asked).

The CPS uses a multistage probability sample based on the results of the decennial census, with
coverage in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. The sample is continually updated to
account for new residential construction. When files from the most recent decennial census
become available, the Census Bureau gradually introduces a new sample design for the CPS.

In April 2004, the Census Bureau began phasing out the 1990 sample 1 and replacing it with the
2000 sample, creating a mixed sampling frame. Two simultaneous changes occurred during this
phase-in period. First, primary sampling units (PSUs) 2 selected for only the 2000 design
gradually replaced those selected for the 1990 design. This involved 10 percent of the sample.
Second, within PSUs selected for both the 1990 and 2000 designs, sample households from the
2000 design gradually replaced sample households from the 1990 design. This involved about
90 percent of the sample. The new sample design was completely implemented by July 2005.

In the first stage of the sampling process, PSUs are selected for sample. The United States is
divided into 2,025 PSUs. The PSUs were redefined for this design to correspond to the Office of
Management and Budget definitions of Core-Based Statistical Area definitions and to improve

1
    For detailed information on the 2000 sample redesign, please see reference [1].
2
    The PSUs correspond to substate areas (i.e., counties or groups of counties) that are geographically contiguous.
                                                        16-1
efficiency in field operations. These PSUs are grouped into 824 strata. Within each stratum, a
single PSU is chosen for the sample, with its probability of selection proportional to its
population as of the most recent decennial census. This PSU represents the entire stratum from
which it was selected. In the case of strata consisting of only one PSU, the PSU is chosen with
certainty.

Approximately 72,000 housing units were selected for sample from the sampling frame in
November. Based on eligibility criteria, 11 percent of these housing units were sent directly to
computer-assisted telephone interviewing (CATI). The remaining units were assigned to
interviewers for computer-assisted personal interviewing (CAPI). 3 Of all housing units in
sample, about 60,000 were determined to be eligible for interview. Interviewers obtained
interviews at about 53,000 of these units. Noninterviews occur when the occupants are not
found at home after repeated calls or are unavailable for some other reason.

November 2013 Supplement. In November 2013, in addition to the basic CPS questions,
interviewers asked supplementary questions of all persons 18 years of age and older on civic
engagement.

Estimation Procedure. This survey’s estimation procedure adjusts weighted sample results to
agree with independently derived population estimates of the civilian noninstitutionalized
population of the United States and each state (including the District of Columbia). These
population estimates, used as controls for the CPS, are prepared monthly to agree with the most
current set of population estimates that are released as part of the Census Bureau’s population
estimates and projections program.

The population controls for the nation are distributed by demographic characteristics in two
ways:

        •        Age, sex, and race (White alone, Black alone, and all other groups combined).
        •        Age, sex, and Hispanic origin.

The population controls for the states are distributed by race (Black alone and all other race
groups combined), age (0-15, 16-44, and 45 and over), and sex.

The independent estimates by age, sex, race, and Hispanic origin, and for states by selected age
groups and broad race categories, are developed using the basic demographic accounting formula
whereby the population from the 2010 data is updated using data on the components of
population change (births, deaths, and net international migration) with net internal migration as
an additional component in the state population estimates.




3
    For further information on CATI and CAPI and the eligibility criteria, please see reference [2].
                                                    16-2
The net international migration component of the population estimates includes:

       •       Net international migration of the foreign born;
       •       Net migration between the United States and Puerto Rico;
       •       Net migration of natives to and from the United States; and
       •       Net movement of the Armed Forces population to and from the United States.

Because the latest available information on these components lags the survey date, it is necessary
to make short-term projections of these components to develop the estimate for the survey date.

ACCURACY OF THE ESTIMATES
A sample survey estimate has two types of error: sampling and nonsampling. The accuracy of an
estimate depends on both types of error. The nature of the sampling error is known given the
survey design; the full extent of the nonsampling error is unknown.

Sampling Error. Since the CPS estimates come from a sample, they may differ from figures
from an enumeration of the entire population using the same questionnaires, instructions, and
enumerators. For a given estimator, the difference between an estimate based on a sample and
the estimate that would result if the sample were to include the entire population is known as
sampling error. Standard errors, as calculated by methods described in “Standard Errors and
Their Use,” are primarily measures of the magnitude of sampling error. However, they may
include some nonsampling error.

Nonsampling Error. For a given estimator, the difference between the estimate that would
result if the sample were to include the entire population and the true population value being
estimated is known as nonsampling error. There are several sources of nonsampling error that
may occur during the development or execution of the survey. It can occur because of
circumstances created by the interviewer, the respondent, the survey instrument, or the way the
data are collected and processed. For example, errors could occur because:

       •       The interviewer records the wrong answer, the respondent provides incorrect
               information, the respondent estimates the requested information, or an unclear
               survey question is misunderstood by the respondent (measurement error).
       •       Some individuals who should have been included in the survey frame were
               missed (coverage error).
       •       Responses are not collected from all those in the sample or the respondent is
               unwilling to provide information (nonresponse error).
       •       Values are estimated imprecisely for missing data (imputation error).
       •       Forms may be lost, data may be incorrectly keyed, coded, or recoded, etc.
               (processing error).




                                               16-3
To minimize these errors, the Census Bureau applies quality control procedures during all stages
of the production process including the design of the survey, the wording of questions, the
review of the work of interviewers and coders, and the statistical review of reports.

Two types of nonsampling error that can be examined to a limited extent are nonresponse and
undercoverage.

Nonresponse. The effect of nonresponse cannot be measured directly, but one indication of its
potential effect is the nonresponse rate. For the November 2013 basic CPS, the household-level
nonresponse rate was 10.5 percent. The person-level nonresponse rate for the Civic Engagement
supplement was an additional 23.2 percent. Since the basic CPS nonresponse rate is a
household-level rate and the Civic Engagement supplement nonresponse rate is a person-level
rate, we cannot combine these rates to derive an overall nonresponse rate. Nonresponding
households may have fewer persons than interviewed ones, so combining these rates may lead to
an overestimate of the true overall nonresponse rate for persons for the Civic Engagement
supplement.

Sufficient Partial Interview. A sufficient partial interview is an incomplete interview in which
the household or person answered enough of the questionnaire for the supplement sponsor to
consider the interview complete. The remaining supplement questions may have been edited or
imputed to fill in missing values. Insufficient partial interviews are considered to be
nonrespondents. Refer to the supplement overview attachment in the technical documentation for
the specific questions deemed critical by the sponsor as necessary to be answered in order to be
considered a sufficient partial interview.

Coverage. The concept of coverage in the survey sampling process is the extent to which the
total population that could be selected for sample “covers” the survey’s target population.
Missed housing units and missed people within sample households create undercoverage in the
CPS. Overall CPS undercoverage for November 2013 is estimated to be about 15 percent. CPS
coverage varies with age, sex, and race. Generally, coverage is larger for females than for males
and larger for non-Blacks than for Blacks. This differential coverage is a general problem for
most household-based surveys.

The CPS weighting procedure partially corrects for bias from undercoverage, but biases may still
be present when people who are missed by the survey differ from those interviewed in ways
other than age, race, sex, Hispanic origin, and state of residence. How this weighting procedure
affects other variables in the survey is not precisely known. All of these considerations affect
comparisons across different surveys or data sources.

A common measure of survey coverage is the coverage ratio, calculated as the estimated
population before poststratification divided by the independent population control. Table 1
shows November 2013 CPS coverage ratios by age and sex for certain race and Hispanic groups.
The CPS coverage ratios can exhibit some variability from month to month.


                                              16-4
                         Table 1. CPS Coverage Ratios: November 2013
                 Total              White only           Black only    Residual race        Hispanic
 Age   All
group people
             Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female
 0-15  0.86  0.87  0.84  0.90  0.87  0.74  0.78  0.81  0.76  0.85  0.82
16-19 0.79   0.80  0.78  0.83  0.81  0.65  0.66  0.78  0.74  0.80  0.79
20-24 0.72   0.70  0.75  0.72  0.78  0.60  0.67  0.66  0.64  0.69  0.77
25-34 0.83   0.80  0.85  0.84  0.88  0.68  0.77  0.67  0.75  0.75  0.82
35-44 0.86   0.83  0.89  0.86  0.92  0.71  0.78  0.74  0.81  0.75  0.90
45-54 0.87   0.86  0.88  0.88  0.89  0.77  0.84  0.81  0.84  0.78  0.83
55-64 0.88   0.86  0.89  0.88  0.90  0.79  0.87  0.76  0.78  0.81  0.91
 65+   0.92  0.93  0.92  0.94  0.92  0.95  0.94  0.86  0.82  0.82  0.81
 15+   0.85  0.84  0.87  0.86  0.89  0.73  0.80  0.75  0.78  0.77  0.84
  0+   0.85  0.84  0.86  0.87  0.88  0.74  0.80  0.76  0.77  0.79  0.83


Notes: (1) The Residual race group includes cases indicating a single race other than White or Black,
           and cases indicating two or more races.
       (2) Hispanics may be any race. For a more detailed discussion on the use of parameters for
           race and ethnicity, please see the “Generalized Variance Parameters” section.

Comparability of Data. Data obtained from the CPS and other sources are not entirely
comparable. This results from differences in interviewer training and experience and in differing
survey processes. This is an example of nonsampling variability not reflected in the standard
errors. Therefore, caution should be used when comparing results from different sources.

Data users should be careful when comparing the data from this microdata file, which reflects
Census 2010-based controls, with microdata files from January 2003 through December 2011,
which reflect 2000 census-based controls. Ideally, the same population controls should be used
when comparing any estimates. In reality, the use of the same population controls is not
practical when comparing trend data over a period of 10 to 20 years. Thus, when it is necessary
to combine or compare data based on different controls or different designs, data users should be
aware that changes in weighting controls or weighting procedures can create small differences
between estimates. See the discussion following for information on comparing estimates derived
from different controls or different sample designs.

Microdata files from previous years reflect the latest available census-based controls. Although
the most recent change in population controls had relatively little impact on summary measures
such as averages, medians, and percentage distributions, it did have a significant impact on
levels. For example, use of Census 2010-based controls results in about a 0.2 percent increase
from the 2000 census-based controls in the civilian noninstitutionalized population and in the
number of families and households. Thus, estimates of levels for data collected in 2012 and later
years will differ from those for earlier years by more than what could be attributed to actual
changes in the population. These differences could be disproportionately greater for certain
population subgroups than for the total population.
                                                  16-5
Users should also exercise caution because of changes caused by the phase-in of the Census
2000 files (see “Basic CPS”). 4 During this time period, CPS data were collected from sample
designs based on different censuses. Three features of the new CPS design have the potential of
affecting published estimates: (1) the temporary disruption of the rotation pattern from August
2004 through June 2005 for a comparatively small portion of the sample, (2) the change in
sample areas, and (3) the introduction of the new Core-Based Statistical Areas (formerly called
metropolitan areas). Most of the known effect on estimates during and after the sample redesign
will be the result of changing from 1990 to 2000 geographic definitions. Research has shown
that the national-level estimates of the metropolitan and nonmetropolitan populations should not
change appreciably because of the new sample design. However, users should still exercise
caution when comparing metropolitan and nonmetropolitan estimates across years with a design
change, especially at the state level.

Caution should also be used when comparing Hispanic estimates over time. No independent
population control totals for people of Hispanic origin were used before 1985.

A Nonsampling Error Warning. Since the full extent of the nonsampling error is unknown,
one should be particularly careful when interpreting results based on small differences between
estimates. The Census Bureau recommends that data users incorporate information about
nonsampling errors into their analyses, as nonsampling error could impact the conclusions drawn
from the results. Caution should also be used when interpreting results based on a relatively
small number of cases. Summary measures (such as medians and percentage distributions)
probably do not reveal useful information when computed on a subpopulation smaller than
75,000.

For additional information on nonsampling error including the possible impact on CPS
data when known, refer to references [2] and [3].

Standard Errors and Their Use. The sample estimate and its standard error enable one to
construct a confidence interval. A confidence interval is a range about a given estimate that has
a specified probability of containing the average result of all possible samples. For example, if
all possible samples were surveyed under essentially the same general conditions and using the
same sample design, and if an estimate and its standard error were calculated from each sample,
then approximately 90 percent of the intervals from 1.645 standard errors below the estimate to
1.645 standard errors above the estimate would include the average result of all possible samples.

A particular confidence interval may or may not contain the average estimate derived from all
possible samples, but one can say with specified confidence that the interval includes the average
estimate calculated from all possible samples.

Standard errors may also be used to perform hypothesis testing, a procedure for distinguishing
between population parameters using sample estimates. The most common type of hypothesis is
that the population parameters are different. An example of this would be comparing the

4
    The phase-in process using the 2010 Census files will begin April 2014.
                                                          16-6
percentage of men who were part-time workers to the percentage of women who were part-time
workers.

Tests may be performed at various levels of significance. A significance level is the probability
of concluding that the characteristics are different when, in fact, they are the same. For example,
to conclude that two characteristics are different at the 0.10 level of significance, the absolute
value of the estimated difference between characteristics must be greater than or equal to 1.645
times the standard error of the difference.

The Census Bureau uses 90-percent confidence intervals and 0.10 levels of significance to
determine statistical validity. Consult standard statistical textbooks for alternative criteria.

Estimating Standard Errors. The Census Bureau uses replication methods to estimate the
standard errors of CPS estimates. These methods primarily measure the magnitude of sampling
error. However, they do measure some effects of nonsampling error as well. They do not
measure systematic biases in the data associated with nonsampling error. Bias is the average
over all possible samples of the differences between the sample estimates and the true value.

There are two ways to calculate standard errors for the CPS microdata file on Civic Engagement.
They are:

           •   Direct estimates created from replicate weighting methods;
           •   Generalized variance estimates created from generalized variance function
               parameters a and b.

While replicate weighting methods provide the most accurate variance estimates, this approach
requires more computing resources and more expertise on the part of the user. The Generalized
Variance Function (GVF) parameters provide a method of balancing accuracy with resource
usage as well as a smoothing effect on standard error estimates across time. For more
information on calculating direct estimates, see reference [4]. For more information on
generalized variance estimates refer to the “Generalized Variance Parameters” section.

Generalized Variance Parameters. While it is possible to compute and present an estimate of
the standard error based on the survey data for each estimate in a report, there are a number of
reasons why this is not done. A presentation of the individual standard errors would be of
limited use, since one could not possibly predict all of the combinations of results that may be of
interest to data users. Additionally, data users have access to CPS microdata files, and it is
impossible to compute in advance the standard error for every estimate one might obtain from
those data sets. Moreover, variance estimates are based on sample data and have variances of
their own. Therefore, some methods of stabilizing these estimates of variance, for example, by
generalizing or averaging over time, may be used to improve their reliability.

Experience has shown that certain groups of estimates have similar relationships between their
variances and expected values. Modeling or generalizing may provide more stable variance
estimates by taking advantage of these similarities. The generalized variance function is a
                                                 16-7
simple model that expresses the variance as a function of the expected value of the survey
estimate. The parameters of the generalized variance function are estimated using direct
replicate variances. These generalized variance parameters provide a relatively easy method to
obtain approximate standard errors for numerous characteristics. In this source and accuracy
statement, Table 3 provides the generalized variance parameters for labor force estimates, and
Table 4 provides generalized variance parameters for characteristics from the November 2013
supplement.

The basic CPS questionnaire records the race and ethnicity of each respondent. With respect to
race, a respondent can be White, Black, Asian, American Indian and Alaskan Native (AIAN),
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander (NHOPI), or combinations of two or more of the
preceding. A respondent’s ethnicity can be Hispanic or non-Hispanic, regardless of race.

The generalized variance parameters to use in computing standard errors are dependent upon the
race/ethnicity group of interest. The following table summarizes the relationship between the
race/ethnicity group of interest and the generalized variance parameters to use in standard error
calculations.

        Table 2. Estimation Groups of Interest and Generalized Variance Parameters
                                                                Generalized variance parameters to
               Race/ethnicity group of interest
                                                                 use in standard error calculations
Total population                                                            Total or White
White alone, White AOIC, or White non-Hispanic population                   Total or White
Black alone, Black AOIC, or Black non-Hispanic population                       Black
Asian alone, Asian AOIC, or Asian non-Hispanic population
AIAN alone, AIAN AOIC, or AIAN non-Hispanic population
                                                                        Asian, AIAN, NHOPI
NHOPI alone, NHOPI AOIC, or NHOPI non-Hispanic
population
Populations from other race groups                                      Asian, AIAN, NHOPI
Hispanic population                                                           Hispanic
Two or more races – employment/unemployment and
                                                                                Black
educational attainment characteristics
Two or more races – all other characteristics                           Asian, AIAN, NHOPI

Notes: (1) AIAN is American Indian and Alaska Native and NHOPI is Native Hawaiian and Other
           Pacific Islander.
       (2) AOIC is an abbreviation for alone or in combination. The AOIC population for a race group
           of interest includes people reporting only the race group of interest (alone) and people
           reporting multiple race categories including the race group of interest (in combination).
       (3) Hispanics may be any race.
       (4) Two or more races refers to the group of cases self-classified as having two or more races.

                                                  16-8
Standard Errors of Estimated Numbers. The approximate standard error, s x , of an estimated
number from this microdata file can be obtained by using the formula:

                                       s x = ax 2 + bx                                        (1)

Here x is the size of the estimate and a and b are the parameters in Table 3 or 4 associated with
the particular type of characteristic. When calculating standard errors from cross-tabulations
involving different characteristics, use the set of parameters for the characteristic that will give
the largest standard error.

Illustration 1
In November 2013, there were 68,049,000 employed women in the civilian labor force. Use the
appropriate parameters from Table 3 and Formula (1) to get

                                            Illustration 1
                Number of employed women in the civilian
                                                                           68,049,000
                   labor force (x)
                a parameter (a)                                            -0.000031
                b parameter (b)                                                 2,782
                Standard error                                               214,000
                90-percent confidence interval                          67,697,000 to
                                                                          68,401,000

The standard error is calculated as

                  s x = − 0.000031× 68,049,000 2 + 2,782 × 68,049,000 = 214,000

The 90-percent confidence interval is calculated as 68,049,000 ± 1.645 × 214,000.

A conclusion that the average estimate derived from all possible samples lies within a range
computed in this way would be correct for roughly 90 percent of all possible samples.

Standard Errors of Estimated Percentages. The reliability of an estimated percentage,
computed using sample data for both numerator and denominator, depends on both the size of
the percentage and its base. Estimated percentages are relatively more reliable than the
corresponding estimates of the numerators of the percentages, particularly if the percentages are
50 percent or more. When the numerator and denominator of the percentage are in different
categories, use the parameter from Table 3 or 4 as indicated by the numerator.




                                                 16-9
The approximate standard error, s y,p , of an estimated percentage can be obtained by using the
formula:


                                                      p(100 − p )
                                                    b
                                         s y, p =                                            (2)
                                                    y

Here y is the total number of people, families, households, or unrelated individuals in the base or
denominator of the percentage, p is the percentage 100*x/y (0 ≤ p ≤ 100), and b is the parameter
in Table 3 or 4 associated with the characteristic in the numerator of the percentage.


Illustration 2
In November 2013, out of 237,663,000 people of age 18 and older, 10.3 percent reported
contacting a public official. Use the appropriate parameter from Table 4 and formula (2) to get

                                          Illustration 2
                Percentage that contacted a public official (p)                 10.3
                Base (y)                                                237,663,000
                b parameter (b)                                                4,687
                Standard error                                                  0.13
                90-percent confidence interval                          10.1 to 10.5

The standard error is calculated as


                                                ×10.3× (100.0 −10.3) = 0.13
                                       4,687
                         s y, p =
                                    237,663,000

The 90-percent confidence interval for the estimated percentage of people age 18 and older who
reported contacting a public official is from 10.1 to 10.5 percent (i.e., 10.3 ± 1.645 × 0.13).

Standard Errors of Estimated Differences. The standard error of the difference between two
sample estimates is approximately equal to

                                         s x1 − x 2 = sx1 + s x 2
                                                         2          2
                                                                                             (3)

where s x1 and s x2 are the standard errors of the estimates, x 1 and x 2 . The estimates can be
numbers, percentages, ratios, etc. This will result in accurate estimates of the standard error of
the same characteristic in two different areas, or for the difference between separate and
uncorrelated characteristics in the same area. However, if there is a high positive (negative)
correlation between the two characteristics, the formula will overestimate (underestimate) the
true standard error.


                                                    16-10
Illustration 3
The November 2013 supplement showed that out of 237,663,000 people of age 18 and older,
31,507,000 or 13.3 percent were involved in a school, neighborhood, or community group, and
22,393,000 or 9.4 percent were involved in a sports organization. Use the appropriate
parameters from Table 4 and Formulas (2) and (3) to get

                                           Illustration 3
                                 School, neighborhood,
                                  or community group      Sports organization      Difference
                                          (x 1 )                  (x 2 )
      Percentage (p)                              13.3                     9.4            3.9
      Base (y)                            237,663,000          237,663,000                  -
      b parameter (b)                            4,687                   4,687              -
      Standard error                              0.15                    0.13           0.20
      90-percent confidence
                                           13.1 to 13.5               9.2 to 9.6    3.6 to 4.2
         interval


The standard error of the difference is calculated as

                                   s x 1− x2 = 0.152 + 0.132 = 0.20

The 90-percent confidence interval around the difference is calculated as 3.9 ± 1.645 × 0.20.
Since this interval does not include zero, we can conclude with 90 percent confidence that the
percentage of people age 18 and older involved in a school, neighborhood, or community group
is greater than the percentage of people age 18 and older involved in a sports organization.

Standard Errors of Quarterly or Yearly Averages. For information on calculating standard
errors for labor force data from the CPS which involve quarterly or yearly averages, please see
the “Explanatory Notes and Estimates of Error: Household Data” section in Employment and
Earnings, a monthly report published by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.

Technical Assistance. If you require assistance or additional information, please contact the
Demographic Statistical Methods Division via e-mail at dsmd.source.and.accuracy@census.gov.




                                               16-11
    Table 3. Parameters for Computation of Standard Errors for Labor Force Characteristics:
                                       November 2013
   Characteristic                                                              a             b

   Total or White

      Civilian labor force, employed                                       -0.000016       3,068
      Not in labor force                                                   -0.000009       1,833
      Unemployed                                                           -0.000016       3,096

      Civilian labor force, employed, not in labor force, and unemployed
           Men                                                             -0.000032       2,971
           Women                                                           -0.000031       2,782
           Both sexes, 16 to 19 years                                      -0.000022       3,096

   Black

      Civilian labor force, employed, not in labor force, and unemployed
           Total                                                           -0.000151       3,455
           Men                                                             -0.000311       3,357
           Women                                                           -0.000252       3,062
           Both sexes, 16 to 19 years                                      -0.001632       3,455

   Hispanic, may be of any race

      Civilian labor force, employed, not in labor force, and unemployed
           Total                                                           -0.000141       3,455
           Men                                                             -0.000253       3,357
           Women                                                           -0.000266       3,062
           Both sexes, 16 to 19 years                                      -0.001528       3,455

   Asian, American Indian and Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian and
   Other Pacific Islander

      Civilian labor force, employed, not in labor force, and unemployed
           Total                                                           -0.000346       3,198
           Men                                                             -0.000729       3,198
           Women                                                           -0.000659       3,198
           Both sexes, 16 to 19 years                                      -0.004146       3,198


Notes: (1) These parameters are to be applied to basic CPS monthly labor force estimates.
       (2) The Total or White, Black, and Asian, AIAN, NHOPI parameters are to be used for both alone and in
           combination race group estimates.
       (3) For nonmetropolitan characteristics, multiply the a and b parameters by 1.5. If the
           characteristic of interest is total state population, not subtotaled by race or ethnicity, the a and
           b parameters are zero.
       (4) For foreign-born and noncitizen characteristics for Total and White, the a and b parameters
           should be multiplied by 1.3. No adjustment is necessary for foreign-born and noncitizen
           characteristics for Black, Hispanic, and Asian, AIAN, NHOPI parameters.
       (5) For the groups self-classified as having two or more races, use the Asian, AIAN, NHOPI
           parameters for all employment characteristics.
                                                     16-12
   Table 4. Parameters for Computation of Standard Errors for Civic Engagement Characteristics:
                                                  November 2013
                                 Total or White              Black           API, AIAN, NHOPI            Hispanic
 Characteristics
                                  a          b           a             b         a        b          a              b
 PEOPLE

Age Total, 16 years and over   -0.000019    4,687    -0.000130       6,733   -0.000318   6,733   -0.000300     11,347
    16 to 24                   -0.000121    4,687    -0.000674       6,733   -0.001678   6,733   -0.001373     11,347
       16 to 19                -0.000280    4,687    -0.001578       6,733   -0.003888   6,733   -0.003103     11,347
       20 to 24                -0.000212    4,687    -0.001176       6,733   -0.002953   6,733   -0.002462     11,347

    25 years and over          -0.000023    4,687   -0.000161        6,733   -0.000392   6,733   -0.000383     11,347
       25 to 34                -0.000112    4,687   -0.000662        6,733   -0.001487   6,733   -0.001317     11,347
       35 to 44                -0.000118    4,687   -0.000730        6,733   -0.001648   6,733   -0.001471     11,347
       45 to 54                -0.000109    4,687   -0.000761        6,733   -0.001957   6,733   -0.001867     11,347
       55 to 64                -0.000119    4,687   -0.000940        6,733   -0.002515   6,733   -0.002937     11,347
    65 years and over          -0.000107    4,687   -0.001062        6,733   -0.002741   6,733   -0.003397     11,347

Educational Attainment         -0.000008    2,131    -0.000045       2,410   -0.000088   1,946   -0.000063     2,745


  Notes: (1) These parameters are to be applied to the November 2013 Civic Engagement Supplement data.
         (2) AIAN is American Indian and Alaska Native and NHOPI is Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander.
         (3) Hispanics may be any race. For a more detailed discussion on the use of parameters for race and
             ethnicity, please see the “Generalized Variance Parameters” section.
         (4) The Total or White, Black, and Asian, AIAN, NHOPI parameters are to be used for both alone and in
             combination race group estimates.
         (5) For nonmetropolitan characteristics, multiply the a and b parameters by 1.5. If the characteristic of
             interest is total state population, not subtotaled by race or ethnicity, the a and b parameters are zero.
         (6) For foreign-born and noncitizen characteristics for Total and White, the a and b parameters should be
             multiplied by 1.3. No adjustment is necessary for foreign-born and noncitizen characteristics for Black,
             Asian, AIAN, NHOPI, and Hispanic parameters.
         (7) For the group self-classified as having two or more races, use the Asian, AIAN, NHOPI parameters for all
             characteristics except employment, unemployment, and educational attainment, in which case use Black
             parameters.




                                                       16-13
                                    REFERENCES

[1]   Bureau of Labor Statistics. 2004. Employment and Earnings. “Redesign of the Sample
      for the Current Population Survey.” Volume 51 Number 11, May 2004. Washington,
      DC: Government Printing Office. pp 4-6.

[2]   U.S. Census Bureau. 2006. Current Population Survey: Design and Methodology.
      Technical Paper 66. Washington, DC: Government Printing
      Office. (http://www.census.gov/prod/2006pubs/tp-66.pdf)

[3]   Brooks, C.A. and Bailar, B.A. 1978. Statistical Policy Working Paper 3 - An Error
      Profile: Employment as Measured by the Current Population Survey. Subcommittee on
      Nonsampling Errors, Federal Committee on Statistical Methodology, U.S. Department of
      Commerce, Washington, DC. (http://www.fcsm.gov/working-papers/spp.html)

[4]   U.S. Census Bureau, July 15, 2009, “Estimating ASEC Variances with Replicate Weights
      Part I: Instructions for Using the ASEC Public Use Replicate Weight File to Create
      ASEC Variance Estimates.”
      http://usa.ipums.org/usa/repwt/Use_of_the_Public_Use_Replicate_Weight_File_final_PR
      .doc
      Accessed: January 5, 2012




                                          16-14
                                               ATTACHMENT 17

                                                 USER NOTES



This section will contain information relevant to the Current Population Survey November 2013: Civic Engagement
Supplement File that becomes available after the file is released. The cover letter to the updated information should
be filed behind this page.




                                                        17-1
