                  CURRENT POPULATION SURVEY, September 2023
                         Civic Engagement and Volunteering

                              TECHNICAL DOCUMENTATION
                                      CPS—23


This file documentation consists of the following materials:


           Attachment 1              Abstract
           Attachment 2              Overview - Current Population Survey
           Attachment 3              Overview – September 2023
                                      Civic Engagement and Volunteering Supplement
           Attachment 4              Glossary
           Attachment 5              How to Use the Record Layout
           Attachment 6              Basic CPS Record Layout
           Attachment 7              Current Population Survey, September 2023
                                       Civic Engagement and Volunteering Supplement Record
                                       Layout
           Attachment 8              Current Population Survey, September 2023
                                       Civic Engagement and Volunteering Supplement
                                      Questionnaire
           Attachment 9              Industry Classification Codes
           Attachment 10             Occupation Classification Codes
           Attachment 11             Specific Metropolitan Identifiers
           Attachment 12             Dynamic Topcoding
           Attachment 12a            Topcoding of Usual Hourly Earnings
           Attachment 13             Tallies of Unweighted Counts
           Attachment 14             Countries and Areas of the World
           Attachment 15             Allocation Flags
           Attachment 16             Source and Accuracy of the September 2023
                                      Civic Engagement and Volunteering Supplement Data
           Attachment 17             User Notes


                                             NOTE
Questions about the subject matter should be directed to the CPS Branch, U.S. Census
Bureau, Washington, D.C. Phone: (301) 763-3806, or dsd.cps@census.gov.
The U.S. Census Bureau reviewed this data product for unauthorized disclosure of confidential
information and approved the disclosure avoidance practices applied to this release.
CBDRB‑FY24‑0326.
                                        ATTACHMENT 1

                                           ABSTRACT
           Current Population Survey, September 2023: Civic Engagement and
           Volunteering Supplement [microdata file] / conducted by the Census
           Bureau for the Corporation for National and Community Service
           (CNCS). Washington: U.S. Census Bureau [producer and distributor],
           2024.

Type of File

Microdata; unit of observation is individuals within housing units.

Universe Description

The universe consists of all persons in the civilian noninstitutional population of the United States
living in households. The probability sample selected to represent the universe consists of
approximately 50,000 households.

Subject-Matter Description

Data are provided on labor force activity for the week prior to the survey. Comprehensive data are
available on the employment status, occupation, and industry of persons 15 years old and over.
Also shown are personal characteristics such as age, sex, race, marital status, veteran status,
household relationship, educational background, and Hispanic origin.

The Civic Engagement and Volunteering Supplement questions were asked for randomly selected
household members age 16 years old or older. Data are provided on participation in volunteer
activities during a one-year period from September 1, 2022, to the date of the interview, types of
organizations volunteered for, and the types of activities for volunteer service. Data are also
provided on whether or not donations of money, assets, or property valued at 25 dollars or more
were made in the past year to charitable or religious organizations. Data are also provided on
interactions with family, friends, neighbors, and people from other backgrounds; political
engagement; group membership and participation.

Geographic Coverage

States, regions and divisions are identified in their entirety. Within confidentiality restrictions;
indicators are provided for 260 selected core-based statistical areas (CBSA), 42 selected
combined statistical areas (CSA), 277 counties, and 97 principal cities in multi-principal city
core-based statistical areas or combined statistical areas. Also within confidentiality restrictions,
indicators are provided for metropolitan/non-metropolitan, central city/balance metropolitan, and
CBSA size.

Technical Description

File Structure: Rectangular.
File Size: 126,665 logical records; 1,081 characters logical record length.
File Sort Sequence: State rank by CBSA rank by household identification number by line
number.
                                                 1-1
Reference Materials:

Current Population Survey, September 2023: Civic Engagement and Volunteering Supplement
Technical Documentation. Documentation contains this abstract, questionnaire facsimiles, and
record layouts of the file.

U.S. Census Bureau. The Current Population Survey Design and Methodology (Technical
Paper 77) describes in detail the sample design and survey procedures used as well as the
accuracy of estimates and sampling errors. This technical paper is available online through the
CPS website www.census.gov/programs-surveys/cps.html

For information about the Current Population Survey and other Census Bureau data products, be
sure to visit our online Question & Answer Center on the Census Bureau’s home page
(http://www.census.gov/) where you can search our knowledge base and submit questions.

File Availability:

The microdata file is available online through the CPS website at www.census.gov/programs-
surveys/cps/data.html




                                               1-2
                                                 ATTACHMENT 2

                                                    OVERVIEW

                                           Current Population Survey

Introduction

The Current Population Survey (CPS) is the source of the official government statistics on employment and
unemployment. The CPS has been conducted monthly for over 60 years. Currently, we obtain interviews from
about 44,000 households monthly, scientifically selected on the basis of area of residence to represent the nation as
a whole, individual states, and other specified areas. Each household is interviewed once a month for four
consecutive months one year, and again for the corresponding time period a year later. This technique enables us to
obtain reliable month-to-month and year-to-year comparisons at a reasonable cost while minimizing the
inconvenience to any one household.

Although the main purpose of the survey is to collect information on the employment situation, a very important
secondary purpose is to collect information on demographic characteristics such as age, sex, race, marital status,
educational attainment, family relationship, occupation, and industry. From time to time, additional questions are
included on health, education, income, and previous work experience. The statistics resulting from these questions
serve to update similar information collected once every 10 years through the decennial census, and are used by
government policymakers and legislators as important indicators of our nation's economic situation and for planning
and evaluating many government programs.

The CPS provides current estimates of the economic status and activities of the population of the United States.
Because it is not possible to develop one or two overall figures (such as the number of unemployed) that would
adequately describe the whole complex of labor market phenomena, the CPS is designed to provide a large amount
of detailed and supplementary data. Such data are made available to meet a wide variety of needs on the part of
users of labor market information.

Thus, the CPS is the only source of monthly estimates of total employment (both farm and nonfarm); nonfarm self-
employed persons, domestics, and unpaid helpers in nonfarm family enterprises; wage and salaried employees; and,
finally, estimates of total unemployment.

It provides the only available distribution of workers by the number of hours worked (as distinguished from
aggregate or average hours for an industry), permitting separate analyses of part-time workers, workers on overtime,
etc. The survey is also the only comprehensive current source of information on the occupation of
workers and the industries in which they work. Information is available from the survey not only for persons
currently in the labor force but also for those who are outside the labor force. The characteristics of such persons -
whether married women with or without young children, disabled persons, students, older retired workers, etc., can
be determined. Information on their current desire for work, their past work experience, and their intentions as to
job seeking are also available.

For a more detailed discussion about the basic labor force data gathered on a monthly basis in the CPS survey, see
"Explanatory Notes and Estimates of Error" in any recent issue of the Employment and Earnings, a Bureau of Labor
Statistics periodical. This source is referred to on the next page.




                                                          2-1
CPS Sample Design

The Current Population Survey (CPS) is a monthly survey designed primarily to produce national and state estimates
of labor force characteristics of the civilian noninstitutional population (CNP) 16 years of age and older. It is
conducted in approximately 60,000 eligible housing units throughout the United States. (Note: ‘Eligible’can be
simplistically defined as an occupied housing unit having at least one person in the CNP.) This sample includes
10,000 eligible housing units from the monthly supplementary sample to improve state-level estimates of health
insurance coverage for low-income children, also known as the CHIP expansion. This supplementary sample has
been part of the official CPS since July 2001. Thirty-two states plus the District of Columbia contain this
supplementary sample each month.

The CPS sample is based on information from the 2010 Decennial Census, in accordance with usual practice.
Historically, the CPS sample has been redesigned after each Decennial Census.

The CPS sample is a probability sample based on a stratified two-stage sampling scheme: selection of sample
primary sampling units (PSUs) and selection of sample housing units within those PSUs. In general, the CPS sample
is selected from lists of addresses obtained from the Master Address File (MAF) with updates from the United States
Postal Service (USPS) twice a year. The MAF is the Census Bureau’s permanent list of addresses, including their
geographic locations, for individual living quarters. It is continuously maintained through partnerships with the
USPS; with Federal, State, regional, and local agencies; and with the private sector, and it is used as a sample frame
by many Census Bureau demographic surveys.

Approximately 72,000 housing units are assigned for interview each month, of which about 60,000 are occupied
and thus eligible for interview. The remainder are units found to be destroyed, vacant, converted to nonresidential
use, containing persons whose usual place of residence is elsewhere, or ineligible for other reasons. Of the 60,000
occupied housing units, approximately 10 percent are not interviewed in a given month due to temporary absence
(vacation, etc.), the residents are not found at home after repeated attempts, inability of persons contacted to
respond, unavailability for other reasons, and refusals to cooperate. The interviewed households contain
approximately 100,000 persons 15 years old and over, approximately 24,000 children 0-14 years old, and about
400 Armed Forces members living with civilians either on or off base within these households. A more precise
explanation regarding the CPS sample design is provided in "Explanatory Notes and Estimates of Error:
Household Data - Sampling" in any issue of Employment and Earnings.

Relationship of Current Population Survey Files to Publications

Each month, a significant amount of information about the labor force is published by the Bureau of Labor
Statistics in the Employment and Earnings and Monthly Labor Review reports.

As mentioned previously, the CPS also serves as a vehicle for supplemental inquiries on subjects other than
employment, which are periodically added to the questionnaire. From the basic and supplemental data, the Bureau
of the Census issues three series of publications under the general title Current Population Reports:

        P-20 Population Characteristics
        P-23 Special Studies
        P-60 Consumer Income

Geographic Limitations

The CPS sample was selected so that specific reliability criteria were met nationally, for each of the 50 States and
for the District of Columbia. Since 1985, these reliability criteria have been maintained through periodic additions
                                                         2-2
and deletions in the State samples. Estimates formed for geographic areas identified on the microdata file which are
smaller than states are not as reliable.

Weights

Under the estimating methods used in the CPS, all of the results for a given month become available simultaneously
and are based on returns for the entire panel of respondents. The CPS estimation procedure involves weighting the
data from each sample person. The base weight, which is the inverse of the probability of the person being in the
sample, is a rough measure of the number of actual persons that the sample person represents. Almost all sample
persons in the same state have the same base weight, but the weights across states are different. Selection
probabilities may also differ for some sample areas due to field subsampling, which is done when areas selected for
the sample contain many more households than expected. The base weights are then adjusted for noninterview, and
the ratio estimation procedure is applied.

    1.   Noninterview adjustment. The weights for all interviewed households are adjusted to the extent needed
         to account for occupied sample households for which no information was obtained because of absence,
         impassable roads, refusals, or unavailability of the respondent for other reasons. This noninterview
         adjustment is made separately for clusters of similar sample areas that are usually, but not necessarily,
         contained within a state. Similarity of sample areas is based on Core-Based Statistical Area (CBSA) status
         and size. Within each cluster, there is a further breakdown by residence. Each CBSA cluster is split by
         "principal city" and "balance of the CBSA." The proportion of occupied sample households not
         interviewed fluctuates around 8 percent depending on weather, vacations, etc.

    2.   Ratio estimates. The distribution of the population selected for the sample may differ somewhat, by
         chance, from that of the population as a whole in such characteristics as age, race, sex, and state of
         residence. Because these characteristics are closely correlated with labor force participation and other
         principal measurements made from the sample, the survey estimates can be substantially improved when
         weighted appropriately by the known distribution of these population characteristics. This is accomplished
         through two stages of ratio adjustment as follows:

         a. First-stage ratio estimate. The purpose of the first-stage ratio adjustment is to reduce the contribution
            to variance that results from selecting a sample of PSUs rather than drawing sample households from
            every PSU in the nation. This adjustment is made to the CPS weights in two race cells: black and
            nonblack; it is applied only to PSUs that are nonself-representing and for those states that have a
            substantial number of black households. The procedure corrects for differences that existed in each
            state cell at the time of the 2010 census between 1) the race distribution of the population in sample
            PSUs and 2) the race distribution of all PSUs (both 1 and 2 exclude self-representing PSUs).

         b. Second-stage ratio estimate. This procedure substantially reduces the variability of estimates and
            corrects, to some extent, for CPS undercoverage. The CPS sample weights are adjusted to ensure that
            sample-based estimates of population match independent population controls. Three sets of controls
            are used:

             1)   51 state controls of the civilian noninstitutional population 16 years of age and older

             2)   national civilian noninstitutional population controls for 14 hispanic and 5 nonhispanic age-sex
                  categories

             3)   national civilian noninstitutional population controls for 66 white, 42 black, and 10 "other" age-
                  sex categories


                                                          2-3
                   The independent population controls are prepared by projecting forward the resident population as
                   enumerated on April 1, 2000. The projections are derived by updating demographic census data
                   with information from a variety of other data sources that account for births, deaths, and net
                   migration. Estimated numbers of resident Armed Forces personnel and institutionalized persons
                   reduce the resident population to the civilian noninstitutional population. Estimates of net census
                   undercount, determined from the Post Enumeration Survey, are added to the population
                   projections. Prior to January 2003, the projections were based on earlier censuses, and prior to
                   January 1994, there was no correction for census undercount. A summary of the current
                   procedures used to make population projections is given in “Revisions in the Current Population
                   Survey Effective January 2003" in the January 2003 issue of Employment and Earnings.

 Comparability of CPS from Microdata Files with Published Sources

Although total estimates of the total population will equal published estimates, labor force estimates produced from
a microdata file may not be directly comparable or identical with the published nonseasonally adjusted labor force
data. The official labor force statistics published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) are calculated using the
CPS composite weight (PWCMPWGT). Anyone wanting to replicate not seasonally adjusted BLS estimates should
use this weight. However, not all estimates made from a public use file will match such weighted published
estimates. This is because of various steps taken in the creation of CPS public use files to protect the confidentiality
of CPS respondents. Top side estimates for most major demographic and economic categories such as age, race,
gender and major labor force status will agree with the published totals; however, estimates for small
groups/combinations of these characteristics will differ. The same is true for any estimates for any demographic or
labor force characteristic not listed above. Such estimates will be similar but not identical.

Another factor also inhibits microdata comparison with published labor force data. This is the seasonal adjustment
that is applied to many published statistics. This adjustment is used to adjust for normal seasonal variations to help
distinguish the underlying economic situation in month-to-month changes and is not reflected in any of the weights
or variables included on the public use files.

Shown below are data from January and July 2015 which demonstrate how estimates compiled using the final
weights from the microdata file may differ from the published composited estimates, with and without seasonal
adjustment. Note that the composite estimation procedure was not used for estimates published from January 1994
to May 1994. For a further description of both the composite estimator and seasonal adjustment, see the most recent
of the CPS Technical Paper (66 or 77).




                                                           2-4
Comparison of CPS Estimates from Microdata Files with Published Sources


                                     Civilian              Civilian                                                             Not in
                           Noninstitutional                   Labor                                                              Labor
                                  Population                  Force             Employed           Unemployed                    Force
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
January 2015
Data (000's)

Final Weights                      249,723                 156,311               146,658               9,653                   93,412

Composited
(Not Seasonally
Adjusted)                          249,723                 156,050               146,552                 9,498                 93,674

Composited
(Seasonally
Adjusted)                          249,723                 157,180               148,201                 8,979                 92,544

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
July 1993
Data (000's)

Final Weights                      250,876                 159,112               150,176                 8,936                 91,764

Composited
(Not Seasonally
Adjusted)                          250,876                 158,527               149,722                 8,805                 92,349

Composited
(Seasonally
Adjusted)                           250,876                157,106               148,840                 8,266                 93,770
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                                                   2-5
                                         ATTACHMENT 3

                                             OVERVIEW

                    September 2023 Civic Engagement and Volunteering
                                      Supplement

General

The September 2023 Civic Engagement and Volunteering Supplement was conducted as a
supplement to that month's Current Population Survey (CPS). The CPS is a monthly labor force
survey conducted in approximately 44,000 interviewed households across the country.
Attachment 8 is a facsimile of the document used by the CPS with September 2023 Civic
Engagement and Volunteering Supplement questions. See "Overview-Current Population Survey"
(Attachment 2) for a description of the CPS; the following describes the September 2023 Civic
Engagement and Volunteering Supplement questions asked in the full CPS sample, for randomly
selected household members age 16 years and older.

Data Collection

The September 2023 Civic Engagement and Volunteering Supplement attempted to obtain self-
responses from household members 16 years old and over. Proxy responses were allowed if
attempts for a self-response were unsuccessful. The supplement contained questions about the
household member's participation in civic and volunteering service from September 1, 2022, to the
date of the interview. It asks a variety of topics that assess civic health. This includes interactions
with family, friends, neighbors, and people from other backgrounds; political engagement; group
membership and participation; frequency of volunteering activity; and donations to political or
charitable organizations. Interviews were conducted during the period of September 17 - 26, 2023.
Interviewers were provided with a two-hour home study for completing the basic CPS labor force
exercises, supplement exercises, and a practice interview concerning the supplement.

The 2023 collection includes one new question, S16F. This question was asked only of self-
respondents who reported volunteering in the previous 12 months.

Data Processing

The data processing involved a consistency edit of all supplement items. The consistency edit
mainly ensured that the entries within an individual record followed the correct skip patterns; items
with off-path entries were blanked whenever appropriate. The values and universes for each
variable are defined in the supplement record layout (Attachment 7).

September 2023 Civic Engagement and Volunteering Computer File

The September 2023 Civic Engagement and Volunteering File consists of two parts: the CPS
labor force data and the supplement data.


                                                  3-1
The CPS Labor Force Data

The September 2023 CPS file contains 126,665 records. The first 955 characters contain the
labor force data for each record. Attachment 6 contains the CPS Basic Items Record Layout,
which includes the variable name, character size, location on the record, universe, and the
possible values of each basic CPS variable included on the file.

The variable PRPERTYP (located in positions 161-162 on the CPS Basic Items Record Layout)
determines the type of person as follows:

  PRPERTYP

           1 = Child household member (0-14 years old)

           2 = Adult civilian household member (15+ years old)

           3 = Adult Armed Forces household member (15+ years old)

The variable HRINTSTA (located in positions 57-58 on the CPS Basic Items Record Layout)
determines the interview status of the household.

  HRINTSTA

           1 = Interview

           2 = Type A Noninterview (These records represent households that were eligible for
               the August CPS interview but were not interviewed because no one was home,
               household members were temporarily absent, etc.)

           3 = Type B Noninterview (These records represent sample addresses determined to
               be ineligible for the CPS by virtue of being vacant, demolished, nonresidential,
               etc.)

           4 = Type C Noninterview (See explanation for Type B above)

By combining the values of PRPERTYP (1-3) and HRINTSTA (2-4), the number of records
can be determined.

The values of PRPERTYP are:

         Value   Description                      Unweighted Counts
           1     Child                                       16,593
           2     Adult Civilian, 15+                          82,648
           3     Adult, Armed Forces                            339




                                            3-2
The values of HRINTSTA are:

         Value    Description                     Unweighted Counts
           2      Type A Noninterview                        17,947
           3      Type B Noninterview                         8,747
           4      Type C Noninterview                           391

September 2023 Civic Engagement and Volunteering Supplement Data. The September
supplement data are in locations 1001-1081. (See Attachment 7)

Tallying the September 2023 Supplement File. The September 2023 supplement universe
consists of the full CPS sample of all households, for randomly selected civilian persons age 16
and over.

Weighting. A supplement non-response weight is included for use with supplement data. The
weight variables, PWNRWGT and PWSRWGT, were created using the standard CPS weighting
program, and accounts for the random selection of eligible respondents and for missing data due
to non-response. Apply the non-response supplement weight (PWNRWGT) to all supplement
variables, with the exception of those conducted only for self-response (PESWP1a – PESWP1d).
For these four variables, apply the self-response supplement weight (PWSRWGT).

Attachment 13 is a tally listing of unweighted counts from selected supplement items. Use
these totals to ensure that the file is being accessed properly.

Definition of a Partial Interview. Data quality can be measured by knowing the number and
percentage of successful interviews to the overall universe for a data collection. An eligible
person (or household) for any data collection is determined to be an interview when the
definition of a partial interview is satisfied. For the 2023 Civic Engagement and Volunteering
Supplement, the definition of a partial interview is satisfied when a non-refusal response is
given to Items PESWP1a or PESWP2 or PES1. If the response is “refused” to this question, the
interview status is defined as a non-interview. See the Supplement questionnaire in Attachment
8 for the wording of these items.

Data Contact. For questions regarding the September 2023 supplement data, email at
dsd.cps@census.gov or call at 301-763-3806




                                            3-3
                                                  ATTACHMENT 4

                                                     GLOSSARY

                                            Current Population Survey


Age Age classification is based on the age of the person at his/her last birthday. The adult universe (i.e.,
population of marriageable age) is comprised of persons 15 years and over for CPS labor force data.

Allocation Flag Each edited item has a corresponding allocation flag indicating the nature of the edit. See the
attachment on allocation flags for more information. The second character of the item name is always "X".

Armed Forces Demographic information for Armed Forces members (enumerated in off-base housing or on-base
with their families) is included on the CPS data files. No labor force information is collected of Armed Forces
members in any month. In March, supplemental data on income are included for Armed Forces members. This is
the only month that non-demographic information is included for Armed Forces members.

Civilian Labor Force (See Labor Force.)

Class of Worker This refers to the broad classification of the person's employer. These broad classifications for
current jobs are:

        1) Federal government
        2) State government
        3) Local government
        4) Private industry (including self-employed, incorporated)
        5) Self-employed (not incorporated)
        6) Working without pay

Domain The domain for an item is a list or range of its possible values. Note that all unedited items have possible
values of -1 (blank), -2 (don't know), and -3 (refused). Since all items have these possible values, they are not
shown as valid entries for each item.

Duration of Unemployment Duration of unemployment represents the length of time (through the current survey
week) during which persons classified as unemployed are continuously looking for work. For persons on layoff,
duration of unemployment represents the number of full weeks since the termination of their most recent
employment. A period of two weeks or more during which a person is employed or ceased looking for work is
considered to break the continuity of the present period of seeking work.

Earners, Number of The file includes all persons 15 years old and over in the household with $1 or more in wages
and salaries, or $1 or more of a loss in net income from farm or nonfarm self-employment during the preceding
year.

Edited item An edited item is allocated or imputed by the processing system. In most cases this means allocating
a value where the unedited item contains a value of blank, "don't know", or "refused". The second character of the
item name is always "E".

An edited version of an item exists only if that item is processed through the edits. If the edits never deal with a
particular item, then that item only has an unedited version.


                                                           4-1
Since the instrument enforces skip patterns and consistency between many items, the edits are left mainly with the
job of allocating missing values. Also, since an interviewer is allowed to "back up" in the interview, there may be
"off-path" items filled in the unedited data. The edits also blank these off-path items if an edited version of the
items exists.

Education (See Level of School Completed.)

Employed (See Labor Force.)

Family A family is a group of two persons or more (one of whom is the householder) residing together and related
by birth, marriage, or adoption. All such persons (including related subfamily members) are considered as
members of one family. Beginning with the 1980 CPS, unrelated subfamilies (referred to in the past as secondary
families) are no longer included in the count of families, nor are the members of unrelated subfamilies included in
the count of family members.

Family Household A family household is a household maintained by a family (as defined above), and may include
among the household members any unrelated persons (unrelated subfamily members and/or secondary individuals)
who may be residing there. The number of family households is equal to the number of families. The count of
family household members differs from the count of family members, however, in that the family household
members include all persons living in the household, whereas family members include only the householder and
his/her relatives. (See the definition of Family).

Family Weight This weight is used only for tallying family characteristics. In March, the weight on the family
record is the March supplement weight of the householder or reference person.

Final Weight Used in tabulating labor force items in all months, including March. The final weight is controlled
to independent estimates for:

        1) States
        2) Origin, Sex, and Age
        3) Age, Race, and Sex

This weight should not be used when tabulating March supplement data.

Full-Time Worker Persons on full-time schedules include persons working 35 hours or more, persons who worked
1-34 hours for noneconomic reasons (e.g., illness) and usually work full-time, and persons "with a job but not at
work" who usually work full-time.

Group Quarters Group quarters are noninstitutional living arrangements for groups not living in conventional
housing units or groups living in housing units containing nine or more persons unrelated to the person in charge.

Head Versus Householder Beginning with the March 1980 CPS, the Bureau of the Census discontinued the use of
the terms "head of household" and "head of family." Instead, the terms "householder" and "family householder" are
used.

Highest Grade of School Attended (See Level of School Completed.)

Hispanic/Non-Hispanic Origin A person’s Hispanic/Non-Hispanic status in this file is determined on the basis of
a question that simply asks “(Is/Are) (Name/you) Hispanic?”




                                                         4-2
Hours of Work Hours of work statistics relate to the actual number of hours worked during the survey week. For
example, a person who normally works 40 hours a week but who is off on the Veterans Day holiday is reported as
working 32 hours even though he is paid for the holiday.

For persons working in more than one job, the figures related to the number of hours worked in all jobs during the
week. However, all the hours are credited to the major job.

Household A household consists of all the persons who occupy a house, an apartment, or other group of rooms, or a
room, which constitutes a housing unit. A group of rooms or a single room is regarded as a housing unit when it is
occupied as separate living quarters; that is, when the occupants do not live with any other person in the
structure, and when there is direct access from the outside or through a common hall. The count of households
excludes persons living in group quarters, such as military barracks and institutions. Inmates of institutions (mental
hospitals, rest homes, correctional institutions, etc.) are not included in the survey.

Household Weight The household weight is used for tallying household characteristics. In March, the household
weight is the March Supplement weight of the householder.

Householder The householder refers to the person (or one of the persons) in whose name the housing unit is owned
or rented (maintained) or, if there is no such person, any adult member, excluding roomers, boarders, or paid
employees. If the house is owned or rented jointly by a married couple, the householder may be either the husband
or the wife. The person designated as the householder is the "reference person" to whom the relationship of all other
household members, if any, is recorded.

Householder With No Other Relatives in Household A householder who has no relatives living in the
household. This is the entry for a person living alone. Another example is the designated householder of an
apartment shared by two or more unrelated individuals.

Householder With Other Relatives (Including Spouse) in Household The person designated as householder if
he/she has one or more relatives (including spouse) living in the household.

Industry, Occupation, and Class of Worker (I&O) Current Job (basic data) For the employed, current job is the
job held in the reference week (the week before the survey). Persons with two or more jobs are classified in the job
at which they worked the most hours during the reference week. The unemployed are classified according to their
latest full-time job lasting two or more weeks or by the job (either full-time or part-time). The I & O questions
are also asked of persons not in the labor force who are in the fourth and eighth months in sample and who have
worked in the last five years.

Job Seekers All unemployed persons who made specific efforts to find a job sometime during the 4-week period
preceding the survey week.

Longitudinal Weight Used for gross flows analysis. Only found on adult records matched from month to month.

PEMLR (Major Labor Force Recode) This classification is available for each civilian 15 years old and over
according to his/her responses to the monthly (basic) labor force items.




                                                         4-3
Labor Force Persons are classified as in the labor force if they are employed, unemployed, or in the Armed Forces
during the survey week. The "civilian labor force" includes all civilians classified as employed or unemployed.
The file includes labor force data for civilians age 15 and over. However, the official definition of the civilian labor
force is age 16 and over.

    1. Employed

            Employed persons comprise (1) all civilians who, during the survey week, do any work at all as paid
            employees or in their own business or profession, or on their own farm, or who work 15 hours or more
            as unpaid workers on a farm in a business operated by a member of the family; and (2) all those who
            have jobs but who are not working because of illness, bad weather, vacation, or labor-management
            dispute, or because they are taking time off for personal reasons, whether or not they are seeking other
            jobs. These persons would have a Monthly Labor Force Recode (MLR) of 1 or 2 respectively in
            characters 180-181 of the person record which designates "at work" and "with a job, but not at work."
            Each employed person is counted only once. Those persons who held more than one job are counted in
            the job at which they worked the greatest number of hours during the survey week. If they worked an
            equal number of hours at more than one job, they are counted at the job they held the longest.

    2. Unemployed

            Unemployed persons are those civilians who, during the survey week, have no employment but are
            available for work, and (1) have engaged in any specific job seeking activity within the past 4 weeks
            such as registering at a public or private employment office, meeting with prospective employers,
            checking with friends or relatives, placing or answering advertisements, writing letters of application, or
            being on a union or professional register; (2) are waiting to be called back to a job from which they had
            been laid off; or (3) are waiting to report to a new wage or salary job within 30 days. These persons
            would have an MLR code of 3 or 4 in characters 180-181 of the person record. The unemployed
            includes job leavers, job losers, new job entrants, and job reentrants.

           a.    Job Leavers

                 Persons who quit or otherwise terminate their employment voluntarily and immediately begin
                 looking for work.

           b.    Job Losers

                 Persons whose employment ends involuntarily, who immediately begin looking for work, and
                 those persons who are already on layoff.

           c.    New Job Entrants

                 Persons who never worked at a full-time job lasting two weeks or longer.

           d.    Job Reentrants

                 Persons who previously worked at a full-time job lasting two weeks or longer but are out of the
                 labor force prior to beginning to look for work.




                                                           4-4
           Finally, it should be noted that the unemployment rate represents the number of persons unemployed as
           a percent of the civilian labor force 16 years old and over. This measure can also be computed for
           groups within the labor force classified by sex, age, marital status, race, etc. The job loser, job leaver,
           reentrant, and new entrant rates are each calculated as a percent of the civilian labor force 16 years old
           and over; the sum of the rates for the four groups thus equals the total unemployment rate.

    3. Not in Labor Force

           All civilians 15 years old and over who are not classified as employed or unemployed. These persons
           are further classified by major activity: retired, unable to work because of long-term physical or mental
           illness, and other. The "other" group includes, for the most part, students and persons keeping house.
           Persons who report doing unpaid work in a family farm or business for less than 15 hours are also
           classified as not in the labor force.

           For persons not in the labor force, data on previous work experience, intentions to seek work again,
           desire for a job at the time of interview, and reasons for not looking for work are asked only in those
           households that are in the fourth and eighth months of the sample, i.e., the "outgoing" groups, those
           which had been in the sample for three previous months and would not be in for the subsequent month.

           Persons classified as NILF have an MLR code of 5-7 in characters 180-181 of the person record.

Layoff A person who is unemployed but expects to be called back to a specific job. If he/she expects to be called
back within 30 days, it is considered a temporary layoff; otherwise, it is an indefinite layoff.

Level of School Completed/Degree Received These data changed beginning with the January 1992 file. A new
question, "What is the highest level of school ... has completed or the highest degree ... has received?" replaced the
old "Highest grade attended" and "Year completed" questions. The new question provides more accurate data on
the degree status of college students. Educational attainment applies only to progress in "regular" school. Such
schools include graded public, private, and parochial elementary and high schools (both junior and senior high),
colleges, universities, and professional schools, whether day schools or night schools. Thus, regular schooling is
that which may advance a person toward an elementary school certificate or high school diploma, or a college,
university, or professional school degree. Schooling in other than regular schools is counted only if the credits
obtained are regarded as transferable to a school in the regular school system.

Looking for Work A person who is trying to get work or trying to establish a business or profession.

Marital Status The marital status classification identifies four major categories: single (never married), married,
widowed, and divorced. These terms refer to the marital status at the time of enumeration.

The category "married" is further divided into "married, civilian spouse present," "married, Armed Force spouse
present," "married, spouse absent," "married, Armed Force spouse absent," and "separated." A person is classified
as "married, spouse present" if the husband or wife is reported as a member of the household even though he or she
may be temporarily absent on business or on vacation, visiting, in a hospital, etc., at the time of the enumeration.
Persons reported as "separated" included those with legal separations, those living apart with intentions of obtaining
a divorce, and other persons permanently or temporarily estranged from their spouses because of marital discord.

For the purpose of this file, the group "other marital status" includes "widowed and divorced," "separated," and
"other married, spouse absent."

Month-In-Sample The term is defined as the number of times a unit is interviewed. Each unit is interviewed eight
times during the life of the sample.



                                                           4-5
Never Worked A person who has never held a full-time civilian job lasting two consecutive weeks or more.

Nonfamily Householder A nonfamily householder (formerly called a primary individual) is a person maintaining
a household while living alone or with nonrelatives only.

Nonworker A person who does not do any work in the calendar year preceding the survey.

Nonrelative of Householder With No Own Relatives in Household A nonrelative of the householder who has no
relative(s) of his own in the household. This category includes such nonrelatives as a foster child, a ward, a lodger, a
servant, or a hired hand, who has no relatives of his own living with him in the household.

Nonrelative of Householder With Own Relatives (Including Spouse)in Household Any household member who
is not related to the householder but has relatives of his own in the household; for example, a lodger, his spouse,
and their son.

Other Relative of Householder Any relative of the householder other than his spouse or child; for example,
father, mother, grandson, daughter-in-law, etc.

Out Variable An instrument-created item that stores the results of another item.

Own Child A child related by birth, marriage, or adoption to the family householder.

Part-Time, Economic Reasons The item includes slack work, material shortages, repairs to plant or equipment,
start or termination of job during the week, and inability to find full-time work. (See also Full-Time Worker.)

Part-Time, Other Reasons The item includes labor dispute, bad weather, own illness, vacation, demands of home
housework, school, no desire for full-time work, and full-time worker only during peak season.

Part-Time Work Persons who work between 1 and 34 hours are designated as working "part-time" in the current
job held during the reference week. For the March supplement, a person is classified as having worked part-time
during the preceding calendar year if he worked less than 35 hours per week in a majority of the weeks in which he
worked during the year. Conversely, he is classified as having worked full-time if he worked 35 hours or more per
week during a majority of the weeks in which he worked.

Part-Year Work Part-year work is classified as less than 50 weeks' work.

Population Coverage Population coverage includes the civilian population of the United States plus
approximately one million members of the Armed Forces in the United States living off post or with their families
on post but excludes all other members of the Armed Forces. This file excludes inmates of institutions. The labor
force and work experience data are not collected for Armed Forces members.

Processing Recode An item calculated by the processing system from a combination of other items in the
database. The second character of the item name is always "R".

Race The population is divided into six groups on the basis of race: White, Black or African American, American
Indian or Alaska Native, Asian, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, and Other races. The 2011 CPS uses the
Census 2010 question on race that allows for more than one race reporting, but does not include the Census 2010
"Some Other Race" category.

Reentrants Persons who previously worked at a full-time job lasting two weeks or longer, but who are out of the
labor force prior to beginning to look for work.


                                                          4-6
Related Children Related children in a family include own children and all other children in the household who
are related to the householder by birth, marriage, or adoption. For each type of family unit identified in the CPS, the
count of own children under 18 years old is limited to single (never married) children; however, "own children under
25" and "own children of any age," include all children regardless of marital status. The totals include never-
married children living away from home in college dormitories.

Related Subfamily A related subfamily is a married couple with or without children, or one parent with one or
more own single (never married) children under 18 years old, living in a household and related to, but not including,
the householder or spouse. The most common example of a related subfamily is a young married couple
sharing the home of the husband's or wife's parents. The number of related subfamilies is not included in the
number of families.

School, Major Activity A person who spent most of his time during the survey week attending any kind of public
or private school, including trade or vocational schools in which students receive no compensation in money or
kind.

Secondary Individual A secondary individual is a person in a household or group quarters such as a guest, roomer,
boarder, or resident employee (excluding nonfamily households and inmates of institutions) who is not related to
any other person in the household or group quarters.

Self-Employed Self-employed persons are those who work for profit or fees in their own business, profession or
trade, or operate a farm.

Stretches of Unemployment A continuous stretch is one that is not interrupted by the person getting a job or
leaving the labor market to go to school, to keep house, etc. A period of two weeks or more during which a person
is employed or ceased looking for work is considered to break the continuity of the period of seeking work.

Unable to Work A person is classified as unable to work because of long-term physical or mental illness, lasting
six months or longer.

Unedited item An item that is produced by the computer automated instrument, either collected during the
interview or created by the instrument. The second character of the item name is always "U".

Unemployed (See Labor Force.)

Unpaid Family Workers Unpaid family workers are persons working without pay for 15 hours a week or more on
a farm or in a business operated by a member of the household to whom they are related by birth or marriage.

Unrelated Individuals Unrelated individuals are persons of any age (other than inmates of institutions) who are
not living with any relatives. An unrelated individual may be (1) a nonfamily householder living alone or with
nonrelatives only, (2) a roomer, boarder, or resident employee with no relatives in the household, or (3) a group
quarters member who has no relatives living with him/her. Thus, a widow who occupies her house alone or with
one or more other persons not related to her, a roomer not related to anyone else in the housing unit, a maid living
as a member of her employer's household but with no relatives in the household, and a resident staff member in a
hospital living apart from any relatives are all examples of unrelated individuals.

Unrelated Subfamily An unrelated subfamily is a family that does not include among its members the householder
and relatives of the householder. Members of unrelated subfamilies may include persons such as guests, roomers,
boarders, or resident employees and their relatives living in a household. The number of unrelated subfamily
members is included in the number of household members but is not included in the count of family members.




                                                          4-7
Persons living with relatives in group quarters were formerly considered as members of families. However, the
number of such unrelated subfamilies became so small (37,000 in 1967) that beginning with the data for 1968 (and
beginning with the census data for 1960) the Bureau of the Census includes persons in these unrelated subfamilies
in the count of secondary individuals.

Veteran Status If a person served at any time during the four most recent wartime periods, the codes for all periods
of service are entered. A person can report up to 4 periods of service. The following codes are used:

        0 Children under 15
        1 September 2001 or later
        2 August 1990 to August 2001
        3 May 1975 to July 1990
        4 Vietnam era (Aug 1964 to Apr 1975)
        5 February 1955 to July 1964
        6 Korean War (July 1950 to January 1955)
        7 January 1947 to June 1950
        8 World War II (December 1941 to December 1946)
        9 November 1941 or earlier

Wage and Salary Workers Wage and salary workers receive wages, salary, commission, tips, or pay in kind from
a private employer or from a governmental unit. Also included are persons who are self-employed in an
incorporated business.

Workers (See Labor Force--Employed.)

Work Experience Includes those persons who during the preceding calendar year did any work for pay or profit or
worked without pay on a family-operated farm or business at any time during the year, on a part-time or full-time
basis.

Year-Round Full-Time Worker A year-round full-time worker is one who usually worked 35 hours or more per
week for 50 weeks or more during the preceding calendar year.




                                                         4-8
                                        ATTACHMENT 5

                          HOW TO USE THE RECORD LAYOUT


Data users familiar with the CPS data files in prior years will see many similarities between the
format of this file and those files released before January 1994. As in the past, there are numeric
locations on the file which correspond to each variable. There is only one record layout which
contains the variables for children, adults, and armed forces members. In prior years, each type
of person had a separate record layout.

Item Naming Conventions

⊄     The first character of each variable name is one of the following:

       H - Household item
       G - Geography item
     * P - Person item (includes adult items, child items, and armed forces items)

      * There is no need to distinguish adult, child, and armed forces items in the variable
        names in the new system. The recode PRPERTYP (located in positions 161-162) tells
        you what category the person is in.

⊄     The second character of each variable name is one of the following:

      E-     Edited item
      U-     Unedited item
      X-     Allocation flag (see Attachment 15 for more information)
      W-     Weight
      R-     Recode

⊄    The remaining characters describe the variable.

⊄    For multiple entry items, the file contains a separate variable for each possible response.
     Each item has the same descriptive name but a number is added as the last digit. For
     example, Question 22A allows separate entries for up to 6 job search methods. The item
     names are PELKM1 (this item is edited), PULKM2, (this item is unedited), PULKM3, etc.
     These items are located in positions 296-307 of the record layout.




                                                 5-1
                                       ATTACHMENT 6

                CPS RECORD LAYOUT FOR BASIC LABOR FORCE ITEMS

                             STANDARD PUBLIC USE FILES

                            A1. HOUSEHOLD INFORMATION


                           ***********************************
                               * STARTING JANUARY 2023 *
                           ***********************************

NAME       SIZE     DESCRIPTION                                                      LOCATION

HRHHID     15       HOUSEHOLD IDENTIFIER            (Part 1)                          1- 15

                    EDITED UNIVERSE:           ALL HHLD's IN SAMPLE

                    Part 1. See Characters 71-75 for Part 2 of the Household Identifier.

HRMONTH    2        MONTH OF INTERVIEW                                               16-17

                    EDITED UNIVERSE:           ALL HHLDs IN SAMPLE

                    VALID ENTRIES

                    01   MIN VALUE
                    12   MAX VALUE

HRYEAR4    4        YEAR OF INTERVIEW                                                18-21

                    EDITED UNIVERSE:           ALL HHLDs IN SAMPLE

                    VALID ENTRIES

                    1998 MIN VALUE
                    2999 MAX VALUE

HURESPLI   2        LINE NUMBER OF THE CURRENT                                       22 - 23
                    RESPONDENT

                    VALID ENTRIES

                    0    MIN VALUE
                    99   MAX VALUE


                                       6-1
NAME      SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                  LOCATION


HUFINAL   3      FINAL OUTCOME CODE                           24 - 26

                 OUTCOME CODES BETWEEN 001 AND 020 ARE FOR CATI.
                 ALL OTHER OUTCOME CODES ARE FOR CAPI.

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 001 FULLY COMPLETE CATI INTERVIEW
                 002 PARTIALLY COMPLETED CATI INTERVIEW
                 003 COMPLETE BUT PERSONAL VISIT REQUESTED NEXT MONTH
                 004 PARTIAL, NOT COMPLETE AT CLOSEOUT
                 005 LABOR FORCE COMPLETE, SUPPLEMENT INCOMPLETE - CATI
                 006 LF COMPLETE, SUPPLEMENT DK ITEMS INCOMPLETE AT
                     CLOSEOUT–ASEC ONLY
                 020 HH OCCUPIED ENTIRELY BY ARMED FORCES MEMBERS
                     OR ALL UNDER 15 YEARS OF AGE
                 201 CAPI COMPLETE
                 202 CALLBACK NEEDED
                 203 SUFFICIENT PARTIAL - PRECLOSEOUT
                 204 SUFFICIENT PARTIAL - AT CLOSEOUT
                 205 LABOR FORCE COMPLETE, - SUPPL. INCOMPLETE - CAPI
                 213 LANGUAGE BARRIER
                 214 UNABLE TO LOCATE
                 216 NO ONE HOME
                 217 TEMPORARILY ABSENT
                 218 REFUSED
                 219 OTHER OCCUPIED - SPECIFY
                 223 ENTIRE HOUSEHOLD ARMED FORCES
                 224 ENTIRE HOUSEHOLD UNDER 15
                 225 TEMP. OCCUPIED W/PERSONS WITH URE
                 226 VACANT REGULAR
                 227 VACANT - STORAGE OF HHLD FURNITURE
                 228 UNFIT, TO BE DEMOLISHED
                 229 UNDER CONSTRUCTION, NOT READY
                 230 CONVERTED TO TEMP BUSINESS OR STORAGE
                 231 UNOCCUPIED TENT OR TRAILER SITE
                 232 PERMIT GRANTED - CONSTRUCTION NOT STARTED
                 233 OTHER - SPECIFY
                 240 DEMOLISHED
                 241 HOUSE OR TRAILER MOVED
                 242 OUTSIDE SEGMENT
                 243 CONVERTED TO PERM. BUSINESS OR STORAGE
                 244 MERGED
                 245 CONDEMNED
                 247 UNUSED SERIAL NUMBER OR LISTING SHEET
                 248 OTHER - SPECIFY
                 258 UNLOCATABLE SAMPLE ADDRESS
                                      6-2
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                                        LOCATION


                  259 UNIT DOES NOT EXIST/OUT OF SCOPE
                  256 REMOVED DURING SUB-SAMPLING
                  257 UNIT ALREADY HAD A CHANCE OF SELECTION

FILLER     2                                                                         27 - 28


HETENURE   2      ARE YOUR LIVING QUARTERS...                                        29 - 30
                  (READ ANSWER CATEGORIES)

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:           HRINTSTA = 1 OR HUTYPB = 1-3

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    OWNED OR BEING BOUGHT BY A HH MEMBER
                  2    RENTED FOR CASH
                  3    OCCUPIED WITHOUT PAYMENT OF CASH RENT

                  NOTE: May be missing on the Basic CPS microdata files.
                  This will be updated on later releases of the same month’s data.

HEHOUSUT   2      TYPE OF HOUSING UNIT                                               31 - 32

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:           ALL HHLDs IN SAMPLE

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    OTHER UNIT
                  1    HOUSE, APARTMENT, FLAT
                  2    HU IN NONTRANSIENT HOTEL, MOTEL, ETC.
                  3    HU PERMANENT IN TRANSIENT HOTEL, MOTEL
                  4    HU IN ROOMING HOUSE
                  5    MOBILE HOME OR TRAILER W/NO PERM. ROOM ADDED
                  6    MOBILE HOME OR TRAILER W/1 OR MORE PERM. ROOMS ADDED
                  7    HU NOT SPECIFIED ABOVE
                  8    QUARTERS NOT HU IN ROOMING OR BRDING HS
                  9    UNIT NOT PERM. IN TRANSIENT HOTL, MOTL
                  10   UNOCCUPIED TENT SITE OR TRLR SITE
                  11   STUDENT QUARTERS IN COLLEGE DORM
                  12   OTHER UNIT NOT SPECIFIED ABOVE

HETELHHD   2      IS THERE A TELEPHONE IN THIS                                       33 - 34
                  HOUSE/APARTMENT?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:           HRINTSTA = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES
                                              6-3
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                                 LOCATION



                  1    YES
                  2    NO

HETELAVL   2      IS THERE A TELEPHONE ELSEWHERE ON                           35 - 36
                  WHICH PEOPLE IN THIS HOUSEHOLD CAN
                  BE CONTACTED?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:         HETELHHD = 2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    YES
                  2    NO

HEPHONEO   2      IS A TELEPHONE INTERVIEW ACCEPTABLE?                        37 - 38

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:         HETELHHD = 1 OR HETELAVL = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES
                  0  NO
                  1  YES

HEFAMINC   2      FAMILY INCOME                                               39 - 40
                  (COMBINED INCOME OF ALL FAMILY MEMBERS
                  DURING THE LAST 12 MONTHS. INCLUDES MONEY
                  FROM JOBS, NET INCOME FROM BUSINESS, FARM
                  OR RENT, PENSIONS, DIVIDENDS, INTEREST,
                  SOCIAL SECURITY PAYMENTS AND ANY OTHER
                  MONEY INCOME RECEIVED BY FAMILY MEMBERS
                  WHO ARE 15 YEARS OF AGE OR OLDER.)

                  Edited beginning January 2010

                  Note: Caution should be used when using this variable since it
                  has an allocation rate of approximately 20 percent.


                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    LESS THAN $5,000
                  2    5,000 TO 7,499
                  3    7,500 TO 9,999
                  4    10,000 TO 12,499
                  5    12,500 TO 14,999
                  6    15,000 TO 19,999
                  7    20,000 TO 24,999
                                            6-4
NAME      SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                    LOCATION


                 8    25,000 TO 29,999
                 9    30,000 TO 34,999
                 10   35,000 TO 39,999
                 11   40,000 TO 49,999
                 12   50,000 TO 59,999
                 13   60,000 TO 74,999
                 14   75,000 TO 99,999
                 15   100,000 TO 149,999
                 16   150,000 OR MORE

HUTYPEA   2      TYPE A NONINTERVIEW REASON                     41 - 42

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1    NO ONE HOME (NOH)
                 2    TEMPORARILY ABSENT (TA)
                 3    REFUSED (REF)
                 4    LANGUAGE BARRIER
                 5    UNABLE TO LOCATE
                 6    OTHER OCCUPIED - SPECIFY

HUTYPB    2      TYPE B NON-INTERVIEW REASON                    43 - 44

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1    VACANT REGULAR
                 2    TEMPORARILY OCCUPIED BY PERSONS W/ URE
                 3    VACANT-STORAGE OF HHLD FURNITURE
                 4    UNFIT OR TO BE DEMOLISHED
                 5    UNDER CONSTRUCTION, NOT READY
                 6    CONVERTED TO TEMP BUSINESS OR STORAGE
                 7    UNOCCUPIED TENT SITE OR TRAILER SITE
                 8    PERMIT GRANTED CONSTRUCTION NOT STARTED
                 9    OTHER TYPE B - SPECIFY

HUTYPC    2      TYPE C NON-INTERVIEW REASON                    45 - 46

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1    DEMOLISHED
                 2    HOUSE OR TRAILER MOVED
                 3    OUTSIDE SEGMENT
                 4    CONVERTED TO PERM. BUSINESS OR STORAGE
                 5    MERGED
                 6    CONDEMNED
                 7    UNUSED LINE OF LISTING SHEET
                 8    UNLOCATABLE SAMPLE ADDRESS
                                           6-5
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                     LOCATION


                  9    UNIT DOES NOT EXIST/OUT OF SCOPE
                  10   OTHER - SPECIFY

HWHHWGT    10     HOUSEHOLD WEIGHT                                   47 - 56
                  (4 IMPLIED DECIMAL PLACES)
                  USED FOR TALLYING HOUSEHOLD CHARACTERISTICS

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:    HRINTSTA = 1

HRINTSTA   2      INTERVIEW STATUS                                   57 - 58

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:    ALL HHLDs IN SAMPLE

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    INTERVIEW
                  2    TYPE A NON-INTERVIEW
                  3    TYPE B NON-INTERVIEW
                  4    TYPE C NON-INTERVIEW

HRNUMHOU   2      TOTAL NUMBER OF PERSONS LIVING                     59 - 60
                  IN THE HOUSEHOLD (HOUSEHOLD MEMBERS).

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:    ALL HHLDs IN SAMPLE

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    MIN VALUE
                  16   MAX VALUE

HRHTYPE    2      HOUSEHOLD TYPE                                     61 - 62

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:    ALL HHLDs IN SAMPLE

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    NON-INTERVIEW HOUSEHOLD
                  1    HUSBAND/WIFE PRIMARY FAMILY (NEITHER AF)
                  2    HUSB/WIFE PRIM. FAMILY (EITHER/BOTH AF)
                  3    UNMARRIED CIVILIAN MALE-PRIM. FAM HHLDER
                  4    UNMARRIED CIV. FEMALE-PRIM FAM HHLDER
                  5    PRIMARY FAMILY HHLDER-RP IN AF, UNMAR.
                  6    CIVILIAN MALE PRIMARY INDIVIDUAL
                  7    CIVILIAN FEMALE PRIMARY INDIVIDUAL
                  8    PRIMARY INDIVIDUAL HHLD-RP IN AF
                  9    GROUP QUARTERS WITH FAMILY
                  10   GROUP QUARTERS WITHOUT FAMILY
                                       6-6
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                                     LOCATION


HRMIS      2      MONTH-IN-SAMPLE                                                 63 - 64
                  EDITED UNIVERSE:           ALL HHLDs IN SAMPLE

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    MIN VALUE
                  8    MAX VALUE

HUINTTYP   2      TYPE OF INTERVIEW                                               65 - 66

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    NONINTERVIEW/INDETERMINATE
                  1    PERSONAL
                  2    TELEPHONE

HUPRSCNT   2      NUMBER OF ACTUAL AND                                            67 - 68
                  ATTEMPTED PERSONAL CONTACTS

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    MIN VALUE
                  9    MAX VALUE

HRLONGLK   2      LONGITUDINAL LINK INDICATOR                                     69 - 70
                  EDITED UNIVERSE:   ALL HHLDs IN SAMPLE

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    MIS 1 OR REPLACEMENT HH (NO LINK)
                  2    MIS 2-4 OR MIS 6-8
                  3    MIS 5

HRHHID2    5      HOUSEHOLD IDENTIFIER (part 2)                                   71 - 75

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:           ALL HHLD's IN SAMPLE

                  Part 1 of this number is found in columns 1-15 of the record.
                  Concatenate this item with Part 1 for matching.

                  The component parts of this number are as follows:
                  71-72    Numeric component of the sample number (HRSAMPLE)
                  73-74    Serial suffix-converted to numerics (HRSERSUF)
                  75       Household Number (HUHHNUM)

HWHHWTLN   2      Line Number (PULINENO) of the person whose PWSSWGT              76-77
                  was donated as HWHHWGT for the household
                                              6-7
NAME      SIZE   DESCRIPTION                     LOCATION



                 EDITED UNIVERSE: HRINTSTA = 1

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 0    MIN VALUE
                 16   MAX VALUE

FILLER    1                                      78 - 78

HUBUS     2      DOES ANYONE IN THIS HOUSEHOLD   79 - 80
                 HAVE A BUSINESS OR A FARM?

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1    YES
                 2    NO

HUBUSL1   2      ENTER LINE NUMBER               81 - 82
                 FOR HUBUS = 1

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 01   MIN VALUE
                 99   MAX VALUE

HUBUSL2   2      See BUSL1                       83 - 84

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1    MIN VALUE
                 99   MAX VALUE

HUBUSL3   2      See BUSL1                       85 - 86

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1    MIN VALUE
                 99   MAX VALUE

HUBUSL4   2      See BUSL1                       87 - 88

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1    MIN VALUE
                 99   MAX VALUE

                                     6-8
NAME       SIZE     DESCRIPTION                                  LOCATION


               A2. GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

GEREG      2        REGION                                       89 - 90

                    EDITED UNIVERSE:      ALL HHLD's IN SAMPLE

                    VALID ENTRIES

                    1    NORTHEAST
                    2    MIDWEST (FORMERLY NORTH CENTRAL)
                    3    SOUTH
                    4    WEST

GEDIV      1        DIVISION                                     91 - 91

                    EDITED UNIVERSE:      ALL HHLD's IN SAMPLE

                    VALID ENTRIES

                    1    NEW ENGLAND
                    2    MIDDLE ATLANTIC
                    3    EAST NORTH CENTRAL
                    4    WEST NORTH CENTRAL
                    5    SOUTH ATLANTIC
                    6    EAST SOUTH CENTRAL
                    7    WEST SOUTH CENTRAL
                    8    MOUNTAIN
                    9    PACIFIC

FILLER     1                                                     92 – 92



GESTFIPS   2        FEDERAL INFORMATION                          93 - 94
                    PROCESSING STANDARDS
                    (FIPS) STATE CODE

                    EDITED UNIVERSE:      ALL HHLD's IN SAMPLE

                    VALID ENTRIES

                    01   AL     30   MT
                    02   AK     31   NE
                    04   AZ     32   NV
                    05   AR     33   NH
                    06   CA     34   NJ
                    08   CO     35   NM
                                          6-9
NAME     SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                   LOCATION


                09   CT      36   NY
                10   DE      37   NC
                11   DC      38   ND
                12   FL      39   OH
                13   GA      40   OK
                15   HI      41   OR
                16   ID      42   PA
                17   IL      44   RI
                18   IN      45   SC
                19   IA      46   SD
                20   KS      47   TN
                21   KY      48   TX
                22   LA      49   UT
                23   ME      50   VT
                24   MD      51   VA
                25   MA      53   WA
                26   MI      54   WV
                27   MN      55   WI
                28   MS      56   WY
                29   MO

FILLER   1                                                    95 - 95

GTCBSA   5      SPECIFIC METROPOLITAN CBSA CODE               96 - 100
                (SEE GEOGRAPHIC ATTACHMENT)

                EDITED UNIVERSE:       ALL HHLD's IN SAMPLE

                VALID ENTRIES

                00000     NOT IDENTIFIED OR NONMETROPOLITAN
                10180     MIN VALUE
                49740     MAX VALUE

GTCO     3      FIPS COUNTY CODE                              101 - 103

                EDITED UNIVERSE:       ALL HHLD's IN SAMPLE

                VALID ENTRIES

                000     NOT IDENTIFIED
                001-810 SPECIFIC COUNTY CODE
                        (SEE GEOGRAPHIC ATTACHMENT)
                        NOTE: THIS CODE MUST BE USED IN COMBINATION
                        WITH A STATE CODE (GESTFIPS or GESTCEN) IN
                        ORDER TO UNIQUELY IDENTIFY A COUNTY.

                                       6-10
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                   LOCATION


                           ALSO, MOST COUNTIES ARE NOT IDENTIFIED.

GTCBSAST   1      PRINCIPAL CITY/BALANCE STATUS                 104 - 104

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:       ALL HHLD's IN SAMPLE

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   PRINCIPAL CITY
                  2   BALANCE
                  3   NONMETROPOLITAN
                  4   NOT IDENTIFIED

GTMETSTA   1      METROPOLITAN STATUS                           105 - 105

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:       ALL HHLD's IN SAMPLE

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   METROPOLITAN
                  2   NONMETROPOLITAN
                  3   NOT IDENTIFIED

GTINDVPC   1      INDIVIDUAL PRINCIPAL CITY                     106 - 106

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:       ALL HHLD's IN SAMPLE

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0   NOT IDENTIFIED, NONMETROPOLITAN,
                      or NOT A CENTRAL CITY
                  1-7 SPECIFIC PRINCIPAL CITY CODE
                      (SEE GEOGRAPHIC ATTACHMENT )
                      NOTE: WHENEVER POSSIBLE THIS CODE
                      IDENTIFIES SPECIFIC PRINCIPAL CITIES IN
                      A METROPOLITAN AREA THAT HAS MULTIPLE
                      PRINCIPAL CITIES. THIS CODE MUST BE
                      USED IN COMBINATION WITH THE CBSA
                      FIPS CODE (GTCBSA) IN ORDER TO
                      UNIQUELY IDENTIFY A SPECIFIC CITY.

GTCBSASZ   1      Metropolitan Area (CBSA) SIZE                 107 - 107

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:       ALL HHLD's IN SAMPLE

                  VALID ENTRIES
                                         6-11
NAME     SIZE    DESCRIPTION                                     LOCATION



                 0    NOT IDENTIFIED OR NONMETROPOLITAN
                 2    100,000 - 249,999
                 3    250,000 - 499,999
                 4    500,000 - 999,999
                 5    1,000,000 - 2,499,999
                 6    2,500,000 - 4,999,999
                 7    5,000,000+

GTCSA    3       Consolidated Statistical Area (CSA) FIPS CODE   108-110
                 (SEE GEOGRAPHIC ATTACHMENT)

                 EDITED UNIVERSE:        ALL HHLD's IN SAMPLE

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 000 NOT IDENTIFIED OR NONMETROPOLITAN
                 104 MIN VALUE
                 548 MAX VALUE

FILLER   3                                                       111 - 113

                A3. PERSONS INFORMATION DEMOGRAPHIC ITEMS

FILLER   2       Starting January 2014                           114 - 117

PERRP    2        RELATIONSHIP TO REFERENCE                      118 - 119
                  PERSON

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:       PRPERTYP = 1, 2, OR 3


                  VALID ENTRIES

                  EXPANDED RELATIONSHIP CATEGORIES
                  40 REFERENCE PERSON W/RELS.
                  41 REFERENCE PERSON W/O RELS.
                  42 OPPOSITE SEX SPOUSE
                  43 OPPOSITE SEX PARTNER WITH RELATIVES
                  44 OPPOSITE SEC PARTNER WITHOUT RELATIVES
                  45 SAME SEX SPOUSE
                  46 SAME SEX PARTNER WITH RELATIVES
                  47 SAME SEX PARTNER WITHOUT RELATIVES
                  48 CHILD
                  49 GRANDCHILD
                  50 PARENT
                                          6-12
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                                    LOCATION


                  51   BROTHER/SISTER
                  52   OTHER REL. OR REF. PERSON
                  53   FOSTER CHILD
                  54   HOUSEMATE/ROOMMATE W/RELS.
                  55   HOUSEMATE/ROOMMATEW/O RELS.
                  56   ROOMER/BOARDER W/RELS.
                  57   ROOMER/BOARDER W/OUT RELS.
                  58   NONRELATIVE OF REFERENCE PERSON W/RELS.
                  59   NONRELATIVE OF REFERENCE PERSON W/OUT RELS.

FILLER     2                                                                     120 - 121

PRTAGE     2      PERSONS AGE                                                    122 - 123

                  Note: This variable was labeled as PEAGE in prior versions of this documentation
                  even though it contained the public use version of age that was topcoded and underwent
                  further masking steps to protect the confidentiality of individuals in sample.

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:          PRPERTYP = 1, 2, 0R 3




                  VALID ENTRIES

                  00-79     Age in Years
                  80        80-84 Years Old
                  85        85+ Years Old

PRTFAGE    1      TOP CODE FLAG FOR AGE                                          124 - 124

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    NO TOP CODE
                  1    TOP CODED VALUE FOR AGE

PEMARITL   2      MARITAL STATUS                                                 125 - 126

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:          PRTAGE >= 15

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    MARRIED - SPOUSE PRESENT
                  2    MARRIED - SPOUSE ABSENT
                  3    WIDOWED
                  4    DIVORCED
                                            6-13
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                    LOCATION


                  5     SEPARATED
                  6     NEVER MARRIED

PESPOUSE   2      LINE NUMBER OF SPOUSE                          127 - 128

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:       PEMARITL = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  -1    NO SPOUSE
                  01    MIN VALUE
                  99    MAX VALUE

PESEX      2      SEX                                            129 - 130

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:       PRPERTYP = 1, 2, 0R 3

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1     MALE
                  2     FEMALE


PEAFEVER   2      DID YOU EVER SERVE ON ACTIVE                   131 - 132
                  DUTY IN THE U.S. ARMED FORCES?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:       PRTAGE >=17

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1     YES
                  2     NO

FILLER     2      Starting August 2005                           133 - 134

PEAFNOW    2      ARE YOU NOW IN THE ARMED FORCES                135 - 136

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:       PRPERTYP = 2 or 3

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1     YES
                  2     NO

PEEDUCA    2      HIGHEST LEVEL OF SCHOOL                        137 - 138
                  COMPLETED OR DEGREE RECEIVED
                                         6-14
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                    LOCATION



                  EDITED UNIVERSE:       PRPERTYP = 2 0R 3

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  31   LESS THAN 1ST GRADE
                  32   1ST, 2ND, 3RD OR 4TH GRADE
                  33   5TH OR 6TH GRADE
                  34   7TH OR 8TH GRADE
                  35   9TH GRADE
                  36   10TH GRADE
                  37   11TH GRADE
                  38   12TH GRADE NO DIPLOMA
                  39   HIGH SCHOOL GRAD-DIPLOMA OR EQUIV (GED)
                  40   SOME COLLEGE BUT NO DEGREE
                  41   ASSOCIATE DEGREE-OCCUPATIONAL/VOCATIONAL
                  42   ASSOCIATE DEGREE-ACADEMIC PROGRAM
                  43   BACHELOR'S DEGREE (EX: BA, AB, BS)
                  44   MASTER'S DEGREE (EX: MA, MS, MEng, MEd, MSW)
                  45   PROFESSIONAL SCHOOL DEG (EX: MD, DDS, DVM)
                  46   DOCTORATE DEGREE (EX: PhD, EdD)


PTDTRACE   2      RACE                                           139 – 140

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:       PRPERTYP = 1, 2, 0R 3

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  01   White Only
                  02   Black Only
                  03   American Indian, Alaskan Native Only
                  04   Asian Only
                  05   Hawaiian/Pacific Islander Only
                  06   White-Black
                  07   White-AI
                  08   White-Asian
                  09   White-HP
                  10   Black-AI
                  11   Black-Asian
                  12   Black-HP
                  13   AI-Asian
                  14   AI-HP
                  15   Asian-HP
                                         6-15
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                 LOCATION


                  16   W-B-AI
                  17   W-B-A
                  18   W-B-HP
                  19   W-AI-A
                  20   W-AI-HP
                  21   W-A-HP
                  22   B-AI-A
                  23   W-B-AI-A
                  24   W-AI-A-HP
                  25   Other 3 Race Combinations
                  26   Other 4 and 5 Race Combinations

PRDTHSP    2      DETAILED HISPANIC ORIGIN GROUP              141 - 142
                         Revised January 2014

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:       PEHSPNON = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1. Mexican
                  2. Puerto Rican
                  3. Cuban
                  4. Dominican
                  5. Salvadoran
                  6. Central American, excluding Salvadoran
                  7. South American
                  8. Other Spanish

PUCHINHH   2      CHANGE IN HOUSEHOLD COMPOSITION             143 – 144

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    PERSON ADDED
                  2    PERSON ADDED - URE
                  3    PERSON UNDELETED
                  4    PERSON DIED
                  5    DELETED FOR REASON OTHER THAN DEATH
                  6    PERSON JOINED ARMED FORCES
                  7    PERSON NO LONGER IN AF
                  9    CHANGE IN DEMOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

FILLER     2                                                  145 - 146

PULINENO   2      PERSON'S LINE NUMBER                        147 – 148
                                         6-16
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                LOCATION



                  VALID ENTRIES

                  01   MIN VALUE
                  99   MAX VALUE

FILLER     2                                                 149 - 150

PRFAMNUM   2      FAMILY NUMBER RECODE                       151 - 152

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:   PRPERTYP = 1, 2, 0R 3



                  VALID ENTRIES

                  00   NOT A FAMILY MEMBER
                  01   PRIMARY FAMILY MEMBER ONLY
                  02   SUBFAMILY NO. 2 MEMBER
                  03   SUBFAMILY NO. 3 MEMBER
                  04   SUBFAMILY NO. 4 MEMBER
                  05   SUBFAMILY NO. 5 MEMBER
                  06   SUBFAMILY NO. 6 MEMBER
                  07   SUBFAMILY NO. 7 MEMBER
                  08   SUBFAMILY NO. 8 MEMBER
                  09   SUBFAMILY NO. 9 MEMBER
                  10   SUBFAMILY NO. 10 MEMBER
                  11   SUBFAMILY NO. 11 MEMBER
                  12   SUBFAMILY NO. 12 MEMBER
                  13   SUBFAMILY NO. 13 MEMBER
                  14   SUBFAMILY NO. 14 MEMBER
                  15   SUBFAMILY NO. 15 MEMBER
                  16   SUBFAMILY NO. 16 MEMBER
                  17   SUBFAMILY NO. 17 MEMBER
                  18   SUBFAMILY NO. 18 MEMBER
                  19   SUBFAMILY NO. 19 MEMBER

PRFAMREL   2      FAMILY RELATIONSHIP RECODE                 153 - 154

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:   PRPERTYP = 1, 2, 0R 3

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    NOT A FAMILY MEMBER
                  1    REFERENCE PERSON
                  2    SPOUSE
                                     6-17
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                   LOCATION


                  3   CHILD
                  4   OTHER RELATIVE (PRIMARY FAMILY & UNREL)

PRFAMTYP   2      FAMILY TYPE RECODE                            155 - 156

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:   PRPERTYP = 1, 2, 0R 3

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   PRIMARY FAMILY
                  2   PRIMARY INDIVIDUAL
                  3   RELATED SUBFAMILY
                  4   UNRELATED SUBFAMILY
                  5   SECONDARY INDIVIDUAL

PEHSPNON   2      HISPANIC OR NON-HISPANIC                      157 - 158

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:   PRPERTYP = 1, 2, 0R 3

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   HISPANIC
                  2   NON-HISPANIC

PRMARSTA   2      MARITAL STATUS BASED ON                       159 - 160
                  ARMED FORCES PARTICIPATION

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:   PRPERTYP = 2 0R 3

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   MARRIED, CIVILIAN SPOUSE PRESENT
                  2   MARRIED, ARMED FORCES SPOUSE PRESENT
                  3   MARRIED, SPOUSE ABSENT (EXC. SEPARATED)
                  4   WIDOWED
                  5   DIVORCED
                  6   SEPARATED
                  7   NEVER MARRIED

PRPERTYP   2      TYPE OF PERSON RECORD RECODE                  161 - 162

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:   ALL HOUSEHOLD MEMBERS

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   CHILD HOUSEHOLD MEMBER
                                       6-18
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                LOCATION


                  2   ADULT CIVILIAN HOUSEHOLD MEMBER
                  3   ADULT ARMED FORCES HOUSEHOLD MEMBER

PENATVTY   3      COUNTRY OF BIRTH                           163 - 165

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:   PRPERTYP = 1, 2, 0R 3

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  057 UNITED STATES
                  060 AM SAMOA
                  066 GUAM
                  073 PUERTO RICO
                  078 U. S. VIRGIN ISLANDS
                  096 OTHER U. S. ISLAND AREA
                  100-554 FOREIGN COUNTRY (SEE APPENDIX)
                  555 ELSEWHERE

PEMNTVTY   3      MOTHER'S COUNTRY OF BIRTH                  166 - 168

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:   PRPERTYP = 1, 2, 0R 3

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  057 UNITED STATES
                  060 AM SAMOA
                  066 GUAM
                  073 PUERTO RICO
                  078 U. S. VIRGIN ISLANDS
                  096 OTHER U. S. ISLAND AREA
                  100-554 FOREIGN COUNTRY (SEE APPENDIX)
                  555 ELSEWHERE

PEFNTVTY   3      FATHER'S COUNTRY OF BIRTH                  169 - 171

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:   PRPERTYP = 1, 2, 0R 3

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  057 UNITED STATES
                  060 AM SAMOA
                  066 GUAM
                  073 PUERTO RICO
                  078 U. S. VIRGIN ISLANDS
                  096 OTHER U. S. ISLAND AREA
                  100-554 FOREIGN COUNTRY (SEE APPENDIX)
                                     6-19
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                            LOCATION


                  555 ELSEWHERE

PRCITSHP   2      CITIZENSHIP STATUS                                     172 - 173

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:          PRPERTYP = 1, 2, 0R 3

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    NATIVE, BORN IN THE UNITED STATES
                  2    NATIVE, BORN IN PUERTO RICO OR OTHER U.S. ISLAND AREAS
                  3    NATIVE, BORN ABROAD OF AMERICAN PARENT OR PARENTS
                  4    FOREIGN BORN, U.S. CITIZEN BY NATURALIZATION
                  5    FOREIGN BORN, NOT A CITIZEN OF THE UNITED STATES


PRCITFLG   2      CITIZENSHIP ALLOCATION FLAG                            174 - 175

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:          PRPERTYP = 1, 2, 0R 3

                  Placed in this position because naming convention is
                  different from all other allocation flags.

PRINUSYR   2      IMMIGRANT'S YEAR OF ENTRY                              176 - 177

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:          PRCITSHP = 2, 3, 4, OR 5

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  -1   NOT IN UNIVERSE (BORN IN U.S.)
                  00   NOT FOREIGN BORN
                  01   BEFORE 1950
                  02   1950-1959
                  03   1960-1964
                  04   1965-1969
                  05   1970-1974
                  06   1975-1979
                  07   1980-1981
                  08   1982-1983
                  09   1984-1985
                  10   1986-1987
                  11   1988-1989
                  12   1990-1991
                  13   1992-1993
                  14   1994-1995
                  15   1996-1997
                  16   1998-1999
                                            6-20
NAME       SIZE     DESCRIPTION                            LOCATION


                    17   2000-2001
                    18   2002-2003
                    19   2004-2005
                    20   2006-2007
                    21   2008-2009
                    22   2010-2011
                    23   2012-2013
                    24   2014-2015
                    25   2016-2017
                    26   2018-2020

               Starting January 2021

                    26   2018-2021

               Starting January 2022

                    26   2018-2019
                    27   2020-2022

               A4. PERSONS INFORMATION LABOR FORCE ITEMS

PUSLFPRX   2        LABOR FORCE INFORMATION COLLECTED      178 - 179
                    BY SELF OR PROXY RESPONSE

                    VALID ENTRIES

                    1    SELF
                    2    PROXY
                    3    BOTH SELF AND PROXY

PEMLR      2        MONTHLY LABOR FORCE RECODE             180 - 181

                    EDITED UNIVERSE:   PRPERTYP = 2

                    VALID ENTRIES

                    1    EMPLOYED-AT WORK
                    2    EMPLOYED-ABSENT
                    3    UNEMPLOYED-ON LAYOFF
                    4    UNEMPLOYED-LOOKING
                    5    NOT IN LABOR FORCE-RETIRED
                    6    NOT IN LABOR FORCE-DISABLED
                    7    NOT IN LABOR FORCE-OTHER

PUWK       2        LAST WEEK, DID YOU DO ANY WORK         182 - 183
                    FOR (EITHER) PAY (OR PROFIT)?
                                       6-21
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                              LOCATION



                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO
                  3   RETIRED
                  4   DISABLED
                  5   UNABLE TO WORK

PUBUS1     2      LAST WEEK, DID YOU DO ANY                184 - 185
                  UNPAID WORK IN THE FAMILY
                  BUSINESS OR FARM?


                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO


PUBUS2OT   2      DO YOU RECEIVE ANY PAYMENTS              186 - 187
                  OR PROFITS FROM THE BUSINESS?

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO

PUBUSCK1   2      CHECK ITEM 1                             188 - 189
                  FILTER FOR QUESTIONS ON UNPAID WORK

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   GOTO PUBUS1
                  2   GOTO PURETCK1

PUBUSCK2   2      CHECK ITEM 2                             190 - 191
                  SKIPS OWNERS OF FAMILY BUSINES WHO DID
                  NOT WORK LAST WEEK

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   GOTO PUHRUSL1
                  2   GOTO PUBUS2

PUBUSCK3   2      CHECK ITEM 3                             192 - 193


                                      6-22
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                     LOCATION


                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   GOTO PUABSRSN
                  2   GOTO PULAY

PUBUSCK4   2      CHECK ITEM 4                                    194 - 195

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   GOTO PUHRUSL1
                  2   GOTO PUABSPD

PURETOT    2      RETIREMENT STATUS                               196 - 197
                  (LAST MONTH YOU WERE REPORTED TO BE
                  RETIRED, ARE YOU STILL RETIRED THIS MONTH?)
                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO
                  3   WAS NOT RETIRED LAST MONTH

PUDIS      2      DISABILITY STATUS                           198 - 199
                  (LAST MONTH YOU WERE REPORTED TO
                  HAVE A DISABILITY.) DOES YOUR DISABILITY
                  CONTINUE TO PREVENT YOU FROM DOING ANY KIND
                  OF WORK FOR THE NEXT 6 MONTHS?

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO
                  3   DID NOT HAVE DISABILITY LAST MONTH

PERET1     2      DO YOU CURRENTLY WANT A JOB, EITHER             200 - 201
                  FULL OR PART-TIME?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:    PEMLR = 5 AND (PURETOT = 1 OR
                                      (PUWK = 3 AND PRTAGE >= 50) OR
                                      (PUABS = 3 AND PRTAGE >= 50) OR
                                      (PULAY = 3 AND PRTAGE >= 50))

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO
                  3   HAS A JOB


                                      6-23
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                              LOCATION


PUDIS1     2      DOES YOUR DISABILITY PREVENT YOU FROM    202 - 203
                  ACCEPTING ANY KIND OF WORK DURING
                  THE NEXT SIX MONTHS?

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO

PUDIS2     2      DO YOU HAVE A DISABILITY THAT PREVENTS   204 - 205
                  YOU FROM ACCEPTING ANY KIND OF WORK
                  DURING THE NEXT SIX MONTHS?

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO

PUABSOT    2      LAST WEEK DID YOU HAVE A JOB             206 - 207
                  EITHER FULL OR PART-TIME?

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO
                  3   RETIRED
                  4   DISABLED
                  5   UNABLE TO WORK

PULAY      2      LAST WEEK, WERE YOU ON LAYOFF            208 - 209
                  FROM A JOB?

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO
                  3   RETIRED
                  4   DISABLED
                  5   UNABLE TO WORK

PEABSRSN   2      WHAT IS THE MAIN REASON YOU              210 - 211
                  WERE ABSENT FROM WORK LAST WEEK?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:   PEMLR = 2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   ON LAYOFF
                                     6-24
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                 LOCATION


                  2    SLACK WORK/BUSINESS CONDITIONS
                  3    WAITING FOR A NEW JOB TO BEGIN
                  4    VACATION/PERSONAL DAYS
                  5    OWN ILLNESS/INJURY/MEDICAL PROBLEMS
                  6    CHILD CARE PROBLEMS
                  7    OTHER FAMILY/PERSONAL OBLIGATION
                  8    MATERNITY/PATERNITY LEAVE
                  9    LABOR DISPUTE
                  10   WEATHER AFFECTED JOB
                  11   SCHOOL/TRAINING
                  12   CIVIC/MILITARY DUTY
                  13   DOES NOT WORK IN THE BUSINESS
                  14   OTHER (SPECIFY)

PEABSPDO   2      ARE YOU BEING PAID BY YOUR                  212 - 213
                  EMPLOYER FOR ANY OF THE
                  TIME OFF LAST WEEK?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:      PEABSRSN = 4-12, 14


                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    YES
                  2    NO

PEMJOT     2      DO YOU HAVE MORE THAN ONE JOB?              214 - 215

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:      PEMLR = 1, 2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    YES
                  2    NO

PEMJNUM    2      ALTOGETHER, HOW MANY JOBS                   216 - 217
                  DID YOU HAVE?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:      PEMJOT = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  2    2 JOBS
                  3    3 JOBS
                  4    4 OR MORE JOBS

                                        6-25
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                     LOCATION


PEHRUSL1   2      HOW MANY HOURS PER WEEK DO YOU                  218 - 219
                  USUALLY WORK AT YOUR MAIN JOB?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:   PEMJOT = 1 OR 2 AND PEMLR = 1 OR 2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  -4   HOURS VARY
                  0    MIN VALUE
                  99   MAX VALUE

PEHRUSL2   2      HOW MANY HOURS PER WEEK DO YOU                  220 - 221
                  USUALLY WORK AT YOUR OTHER (JOB/JOBS)?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:   PEMJOT = 1 AND PEMLR = 1 OR 2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  -4   HOURS VARY
                  0    MIN VALUE
                  99   MAX VALUE

PEHRFTPT   2      DO YOU USUALLY WORK 35 HOURS OR                 222 - 223
                  MORE PER WEEK?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:   PEHRUSL1 = -4 OR PEHRUSL2 = -4

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    YES
                  2    NO
                  3    HOURS VARY

PEHRUSLT   3      SUM OF HRUSL1 AND HRUSL2.                       224 - 226

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:   PEMLR = 1 OR 2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  -4 VARIES
                  0   MIN VALUE
                  198 MAX VALUE

PEHRWANT   2      DO YOU WANT TO WORK A FULL-TIME                 227 - 228
                  WORK WEEK OF 35 HOURS OR MORE PER WEEK?

                                     6-26
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                      LOCATION


                  EDITED UNIVERSE:    PEMLR = 1 AND (PEHRUSLT = 0-34
                                      PEHRFTPT = 2)

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    YES
                  2    NO
                  3    REGULAR HOURS ARE FULL-TIME

PEHRRSN1   2      WHAT IS YOUR MAIN REASON FOR                     229 - 230
                  WORKING PART-TIME?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:    PEHRWANT = 1 (PEMLR = 1 AND PEHRUSLT < 35)

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    SLACK WORK/BUSINESS CONDITIONS
                  2    COULD ONLY FIND PART-TIME WORK
                  3    SEASONAL WORK
                  4    CHILD CARE PROBLEMS
                  5    OTHER FAMILY/PERSONAL OBLIGATIONS
                  6    HEALTH/MEDICAL LIMITATIONS
                  7    SCHOOL/TRAINING
                  8    RETIRED/SOCIAL SECURITY LIMIT ON EARNINGS
                  9    FULL-TIME WORKWEEK IS LESS THAN 35 HRS
                  10   OTHER - SPECIFY

PEHRRSN2   2      WHAT IS THE MAIN REASON YOU DO NOT               231 - 232
                  WANT TO WORK FULL-TIME?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:    PEHRWANT = 2 (PEMLR = 1 AND PEHRUSLT < 35)

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    CHILD CARE PROBLEMS
                  2    OTHER FAMILY/PERSONAL OBLIGATIONS
                  3    HEALTH/MEDICAL LIMITATIONS
                  4    SCHOOL/TRAINING
                  5    RETIRED/SOCIAL SECURITY LIMIT ON EARNINGS
                  6    FULL-TIME WORKWEEK LESS THAN 35 HOURS
                  7    OTHER - SPECIFY

PEHRRSN3   2      WHAT IS THE MAIN REASON YOU WORKED               233 - 234
                  LESS THAN 35 HOURS LAST WEEK?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:    PEHRACTT = 1-34 AND PUHRCK7 NE 1, 2
                                      6-27
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                    LOCATION


                                     (PEMLR = 1 AND PEHRUSLT = 35+)

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    SLACK WORK/BUSINESS CONDITIONS
                  2    SEASONAL WORK
                  3    JOB STARTED OR ENDED DURING WEEK
                  4    VACATION/PERSONAL DAY
                  5    OWN ILLNESS/INJURY/MEDICAL APPOINTMENT
                  6    HOLIDAY (LEGAL OR RELIGIOUS)
                  7    CHILD CARE PROBLEMS
                  8    OTHER FAMILY/PERSONAL OBLIGATIONS


                  9    LABOR DISPUTE
                  10   WEATHER AFFECTED JOB
                  11   SCHOOL/TRAINING
                  12   CIVIC/MILITARY DUTY
                  13   OTHER REASON


PUHROFF1   2      LAST WEEK, DID YOU LOSE OR TAKE                235 - 236
                  OFF ANY HOURS FROM YOUR JOB, FOR
                  ANY REASON SUCH AS ILLNESS, SLACK WORK,
                  VACATION, OR HOLIDAY?

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    YES
                  2    NO

PUHROFF2   2      HOW MANY HOURS DID YOU TAKE OFF?               237 - 238

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    MIN VALUE
                  99   MAX VALUE

PUHROT1    2      LAST WEEK, DID YOU WORK ANY                    239 - 240
                  OVERTIME OR EXTRA HOURS (AT YOUR MAIN JOB)
                  THAT YOU DO NOT USUALLY WORK?

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    YES
                  2    NO
                                     6-28
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                     LOCATION



PUHROT2    2      HOW MANY ADDITIONAL HOURS                       241 - 242
                  DID YOU WORK?

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    MIN VALUE
                  99   MAX VALUE

PEHRACT1   2      LAST WEEK, HOW MANY HOURS DID YOU               243 - 244
                  ACTUALLY WORK AT YOUR JOB?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:   PEMLR = 1


                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    MIN VALUE
                  99   MAX VALUE


PEHRACT2   2      LAST WEEK, HOW MANY HOURS DID                   245 - 246
                  YOU ACTUALLY WORK AT YOUR OTHER (JOB/JOBS)

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:   PEMLR = 1 AND PEMJOT = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    MIN VALUE
                  99   MAX VALUE

PEHRACTT   3      SUM OF PEHRACT1 AND PEHRACT2.                   247 - 249

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:   PEMLR = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0   MIN VALUE
                  198 MAX VALUE

PEHRAVL    2      LAST WEEK, COULD YOU HAVE WORKED                250 - 251
                  FULL-TIME IF THE HOURS HAD BEEN AVAILABLE?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:   PEHRACTT = 1-34 (PEMLR = 1 AND
                                     PEHRUSLT < 35 AND PEHRRSN1 = 1, 2, 3)

                                     6-29
NAME      SIZE   DESCRIPTION                            LOCATION


                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   YES
                 2   NO

FILLER    5                                             252 - 256

PUHRCK1   2      CHECK ITEM 1                           257 - 258

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   GOTO PUHRUSL2
                 2   GOTO PUHRUSLT



PUHRCK2   2      CHECK ITEM 2                           259 - 260
                 SKIPS PERSONS RESPONDING YES TO
                 HRFTPT OUT OF PT SERIES


                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   IF ENTRY OF 1 IN MJ AND
                     ENTRY OF D, R OR V IN HRUSL1
                     AND ENTRY OF D, R, V OR 0-34
                     IN HRUSL2 GOTO HRFTPT
                 2   IF ENTRY OF 1 IN MJ AND ENTRY
                     OF D, R OR V IN HRUSL2 AND
                     ENTRY OF D, R V OR 0-34 IN
                     HRUSL1 GOTO HRFTPT
                 3   IF ENTRY OF 2, D OR R IN MJ
                     AND ENTRY OF D, R OR V IN HRUSL1
                     GOTO HRFTPT
                 4   IF ENTRY OF 1 IN BUS1 AND ENTRY
                     OF D, R OR V IN HRUSL1 THEN
                     GOTO HRFTPT
                 5   ALL OTHERS GOTO HRCK3-C

PUHRCK3   2      CHECK ITEM 3                           261 - 262

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   IF ENTRY OF 1 IN ABSOT OR
                     (ENTRY OR 2 IN ABSOT AND
                     ENTRY OF 1 IN BUS AND CURRENT
                                     6-30
NAME      SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                     LOCATION


                     R_P EQUALS BUSLST) THEN GOTO HRCK8
                 2   IF ENTRY OF 3 IN RET1 GOTO HRCK8
                 3   IF ENTRY IN HRUSLT IS 0-34 HOURS GOTO HRCK4-C
                 4   IF ENTRY IN HRUSLT IS 35+ GOTO HROFF1
                 5   ALL OTHERS GOTO HRCK4-C
                 6   GOTO PUHRCK4

PUHRCK4   2      CHECK ITEM 4                                    263 - 264

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   IF ENTRY OF 1, D, R OR V
                     IN HRFTPT THEN GOTO HRACT1
                 2   IF ENTRY OF 2, D OR R IN BUS2 THEN GOTO HROFF1
                 3   IF HRUSLT IS 0-34 THEN GOTO HRWANT
                 4   IF ENTRY OF 2 IN HRFTPT THEN GOTO HRWANT
                 5   ALL OTHERS GOTO HRACT1

PUHRCK5   2      CHECK ITEM 5                                    265 – 266


                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   IF ENTRY OF 1 IN MJOT GOTO HRACT2
                 2   ALL OTHERS GOTO HRCK6-C

PUHRCK6   2      CHECK ITEM 6                                    267 - 268

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   IF HRACT1 AND HRACT2 EQ 0 AND
                     ENTRY OF 2, D, R IN BUS2 THEN GOTO LK
                 2   IF HRACT1 AND HRACT2 EQ 0 THEN
                     STORE 1 IN ABSOT AND GOTO ABSRSN
                 3   ALL OTHERS GOTO HRACTT-C

PUHRCK7   2      CHECK ITEM 7                                    269 - 270

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   (IF ENTRY OF 2, D OR R IN BUS2) AND
                     (HRACT1 LESS THAN 15 OR D) GOTO HRCK8
                 2   (IF ENTRY OF 2, D OR R IN BUS2) AND
                     (HRACT1 IS 15+) GOTO HRCK8
                 3   (IF HRUSLT IS 35+ OR IF ENTRY OF 1 IN HRFTPT)
                     AND (HRACTT < 35) AND ENTRY IN HRACT1 OR HRACT2
                                     6-31
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                       LOCATION


                      ISN'T D OR R THEN GOTO HRRSN3
                  4   IF ENTRY OF 1 IN HRWANT AND HRACTT < 35
                      AND (ENTRY OF 1, 2, 3 IN HRRSN1) GOTO HRAVL
                  5   ALL OTHERS GOTO HRCK8

PUHRCK12   2      CHECK ITEM 12                                     271 – 272

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   IF ENTRY OF 2, D OR R IN BUS2
                      AND HRACTT IS LESS THAN 15
                      OR D GOTO LK
                  2   ALL OTHERS GOTO IOCK1

PULAYDT    2      HAS YOUR EMPLOYER GIVEN YOU A DATE                273 - 274
                  TO RETURN TO WORK?

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO

PULAY6M    2      HAVE YOU BEEN GIVEN ANY INDICATION                275 - 276
                  THAT YOU WILL BE RECALLED TO WORK WITHIN
                  THE NEXT 6 MONTHS?

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO

PELAYAVL   2      COULD YOU HAVE RETURNED TO WORK                   277 - 278
                  LAST WEEK IF YOU HAD BEEN RECALLED?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:     PEMLR = 3

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO

PULAYAVR   2      WHY IS THAT?                                      279 - 280

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   OWN TEMPORARY ILLNESS
                                       6-32
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                 LOCATION


                  2   GOING TO SCHOOL
                  3   OTHER

PELAYLK    2      EVEN THOUGH YOU ARE TO BE CALLED BACK       281 - 282
                  TO WORK, HAVE YOU BEEN LOOKING FOR WORK
                  DURING THE LAST 4 WEEKS.

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:         PELAYAVL= 1, 2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO

PELAYDUR   3      DURATION OF LAYOFF                          283 - 285
                  EDITED UNIVERSE:  PELAYLK = 1, 2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  01-51    Weeks on layoff
                  52       52 weeks or more
                  Topcoded at 52 weeks starting April 2011

PELAYFTO   2      FT/PT STATUS OF JOB FROM WHICH              286 - 287
                  SAMPLE PERSON WAS ON LAYOFF FROM

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:         PELAYDUR = 0-120

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO

PULAYCK1   2      CHECK ITEM 1                                288 - 289

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   GOTO PULAYCK3
                  2   GOTO PULAYFT
                  3   GOTO PULAYDR

PULAYCK2   2      CHECK ITEM 2                                290 - 291
                  SCREEN FOR DEPENDENT LAYOFF

                  VALID ENTRIES

                                           6-33
NAME           SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                    LOCATION


                      1    GOTO PULAYDR3
                      2    GOTO PULAYFT

PULAYCK3       2      CHECK ITEM 3                                   292 - 293
                      FILTER FOR DEPENDENT I & O

                      VALID ENTRIES

                      1    MISCK = 5 GOTO IO1INT
                      2    I-ICR = 1 OR I-OCR = 1, GOTO IO1INT
                      3    ALL OTHERS GOTO SCHCK

PULK           2      HAVE YOU BEEN DOING ANYTHING TO FIND           294 - 295
                      WORK DURING THE LAST 4 WEEKS?

                      VALID ENTRIES

                      1    YES
                      2    NO
                      3    RETIRED
                      4    DISABLED
                      5    UNABLE TO WORK

PELKM1     2          WHAT ARE ALL OF THE THINGS YOU HAVE            296 - 297
                      DONE TO FIND WORK DURING THE LAST
                      4 WEEKS? (FIRST METHOD)

                      EDITED UNIVERSE:       PEMLR = 4

                      VALID ENTRIES

                      1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                      2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                      3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                      4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                      5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                      6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                      7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS
                      8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                      9    OTHER ACTIVE
                      10   LOOKED AT ADS
                      11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                      12   NOTHING
                      13   OTHER PASSIVE

PULKM2     2          ANYTHING ELSE? (SECOND METHOD)                 298 - 299
                                             6-34
NAME         SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                    LOCATION



                    VALID ENTRIES

                    1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                    2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                    3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                    4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                    5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                    6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                    7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS
                    8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                    9    OTHER ACTIVE
                    10   LOOKED AT ADS
                    11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                    13   OTHER PASSIVE

PULKM3   2          SAME AS PULKM2 (THIRD METHOD)                  300 - 301

                    VALID ENTRIES

                    1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                    2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                    3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                    4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                    5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                    6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                    7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS
                    8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                    9    OTHER ACTIVE
                    10   LOOKED AT ADS
                    11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                    13   OTHER PASSIVE

PULKM4   2          SAME AS PULKM2 (FOURTH METHOD)                 302 - 303

                    VALID ENTRIES

                    1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                    2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                    3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                    4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                    5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                    6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                    7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS


                                       6-35
NAME          SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                    LOCATION



                     8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                     9    OTHER ACTIVE
                     10   LOOKED AT ADS
                     11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                     13   OTHER PASSIVE

PULKM5    2          SAME AS PULKM2 (FIFTH METHOD)                  304 - 305

                     VALID ENTRIES

                     1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                     2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                     3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                     4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                     5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                     6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                     7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS
                     8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                     9    OTHER ACTIVE
                     10   LOOKED AT ADS
                     11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                     13   OTHER PASSIVE

PULKM6    2          SAME AS PULKM2 (SIXTH METHOD)                  306 - 307

                     VALID ENTRIES

                     1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                     2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                     3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                     4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                     5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                     6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                     7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS
                     8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                     9    OTHER ACTIVE
                     10   LOOKED AT ADS
                     11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                     13   OTHER PASSIVE

PULKDK1       2      YOU SAID YOU HAVE BEEN TRYING TO               308 - 309
                     FIND WORK. HOW DID YOU GO ABOUT LOOKING?
                     (FIRST METHOD)


                                        6-36
NAME      SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                    LOCATION


                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                 2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                 5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                 6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                 7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS
                 8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                 9    OTHER ACTIVE
                 10   LOOKED AT ADS
                 11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                 12   NOTHING
                 13   OTHER PASSIVE

PULKDK2   2      ANYTHING ELSE? (SECOND METHOD)                 310 - 311

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                 2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                 5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                 6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                 7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS
                 8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                 9    OTHER ACTIVE
                 10   LOOKED AT ADS
                 11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                 13   OTHER PASSIVE

PULKDK3   2      SAME AS PULKDK2 (THIRD METHOD)                 312 - 313

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                 2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                 5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                 6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                 7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS


                                    6-37
NAME      SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                    LOCATION


                 8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                 9    OTHER ACTIVE
                 10   LOOKED AT ADS
                 11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                 13   OTHER PASSIVE

PULKDK4   2      SAME AS PULKDK2 (FOURTH METHOD)                314 - 315

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                 2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                 5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                 6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                 7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS
                 8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                 9    OTHER ACTIVE
                 10   LOOKED AT ADS
                 11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                 13   OTHER PASSIVE

PULKDK5   2      SAME AS PULKDK2 (FIFTH METHOD)                 316 - 317

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                 2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                 4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                 5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                 6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                 7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS
                 8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                 9    OTHER ACTIVE
                 10   LOOKED AT ADS
                 11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                 13   OTHER PASSIVE

PULKDK6   2      SAME AS PULKDK2 (SIXTH METHOD)                 318 – 319

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                 2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                                    6-38
NAME          SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                    LOCATION


                     3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                     4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                     5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                     6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                     7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS
                     8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                     9    OTHER ACTIVE
                     10   LOOKED AT ADS
                     11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                     13   OTHER PASSIVE

PULKPS1   2          CAN YOU TELL ME MORE ABOUT WHAT YOU            320 - 321
                     DID TO SEARCH FOR WORK?
                     (FIRST METHOD)

                     VALID ENTRIES

                     1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                     2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                     3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                     4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                     5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                     6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                     7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS
                     8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                     9    OTHER ACTIVE
                     10   LOOKED AT ADS
                     11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                     12   NOTHING
                     13   OTHER PASSIVE

PULKPS2   2          ANYTHING ELSE? (SECOND METHOD)                 322 - 323

                     VALID ENTRIES

                     1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                     2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                     3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                     4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                     5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                     6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                     7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS
                     8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                     9    OTHER ACTIVE
                     10   LOOKED AT ADS
                     11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                                        6-39
NAME          SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                    LOCATION


                     13   OTHER PASSIVE

PULKPS3   2          SAME AS PULKPS2 (THIRD METHOD)                 324 - 325

                     VALID ENTRIES

                     1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                     2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                     3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                     4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                     5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                     6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                     7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS
                     8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                     9    OTHER ACTIVE
                     10   LOOKED AT ADS
                     11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                     13   OTHER PASSIVE

PULKPS4   2          SAME AS PULKPS2 (FOURTH METHOD)                326 - 327

                     VALID ENTRIES

                     1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                     2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                     3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                     4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                     5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                     6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                     7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS
                     8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                     9    OTHER ACTIVE
                     10   LOOKED AT ADS
                     11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                     13   OTHER PASSIVE

PULKPS5   2          SAME AS PULKPS2 (FIFTH METHOD)                 328 - 329

                     VALID ENTRIES

                     1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                     2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                     3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                     4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                     5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                     6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                                          6-40
NAME          SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                    LOCATION


                     7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS
                     8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                     9    OTHER ACTIVE
                     10   LOOKED AT ADS
                     11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                     13   OTHER PASSIVE

PULKPS6   2          SAME AS PULKPS2 (SIXTH METHOD)                 330 - 331

                     VALID ENTRIES

                     1    CONTACTED EMPLOYER DIRECTLY/INTERVIEW
                     2    CONTACTED PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                     3    CONTACTED PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
                     4    CONTACTED FRIENDS OR RELATIVES
                     5    CONTACTED SCHOOL/UNIVERSITY EMPL CENTER
                     6    SENT OUT RESUMES/FILLED OUT APPLICATION
                     7    CHECKED UNION/PROFESSIONAL REGISTERS
                     8    PLACED OR ANSWERED ADS
                     9    OTHER ACTIVE
                     10   LOOKED AT ADS
                     11   ATTENDED JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS/COURSES
                     13   OTHER PASSIVE

PELKAVL       2      LAST WEEK, COULD YOU HAVE STARTED              332 - 333
                     A JOB IF ONE HAD BEEN OFFERED?

                     EDITED UNIVERSE:    PELKM1 = 1 - 13

                     VALID ENTRIES

                     1    YES
                     2    NO

PULKAVR       2      WHY IS THAT?                                   334 - 335




                     VALID ENTRIES

                     1    WAITING FOR NEW JOB TO BEGIN
                     2    OWN TEMPORARY ILLNESS
                     3    GOING TO SCHOOL
                     4    OTHER - SPECIFY

                                         6-41
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                   LOCATION


PELKLL1O   2      BEFORE YOU STARTED LOOKING FOR WORK,         336 - 337
                  WHAT WERE YOU DOING: WORKING, GOING
                  TO SCHOOL, OR SOMETHING ELSE?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:         PELKAVL = 1-2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    WORKING
                  2    SCHOOL
                  3    LEFT MILITARY SERVICE
                  4    SOMETHING ELSE

PELKLL2O   2      DID YOU LOSE OR QUIT THAT JOB, OR WAS IT      338 - 339
                  A TEMPORARY JOB THAT ENDED?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:         PELKLL1O = 1 OR 3

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    LOST JOB
                  2    QUIT JOB
                  3    TEMPORARY JOB ENDED

PELKLWO    2      WHEN LAST WORKED                              340 - 341

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:         PELKLL1O = 1 - 4

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    WITHIN THE LAST 12 MONTHS
                  2    MORE THAN 12 MONTHS AGO
                  3    NEVER WORKED

PELKDUR    3      DURATION OF JOB SEEKING                       342 - 344

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:         PELKLWO = 1 - 3


                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0-118     Weeks looking for work
                  119       119 or more weeks looking

                  Topcoded at 119 weeks starting April 2011

                                           6-42
NAME         SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                   LOCATION


PELKFTO      2      FT/PT STATUS OF JOBSEEKER                     345 - 346

                    EDITED UNIVERSE:      PELKDUR = 0-120

                    VALID ENTRIES

                    1    YES
                    2    NO
                    3    DOESN'T MATTER

PEDWWNTO 2          DO YOU CURRENTLY WANT A JOB,                  347 - 348
                    EITHER FULL OR PART TIME?

                    EDITED UNIVERSE:      PUDWCK1 = 3, 4, -1

                    VALID ENTRIES

                    1    YES, OR MAYBE, IT DEPENDS
                    2    NO
                    3    RETIRED
                    4    DISABLED
                    5    UNABLE

PEDWRSN      2      WHAT IS THE MAIN REASON YOU WERE NOT          349 - 350
                    LOOKING FOR WORK DURING THE LAST 4 WEEKS?

                    EDITED UNIVERSE:      PUDWCK4 = 4, -1

                    VALID ENTRIES

                    1    BELIEVES NO WORK AVAILABLE IN AREA OF EXPERTISE
                    2    COULDN'T FIND ANY WORK
                    3    LACKS NECESSARY SCHOOLING/TRAINING
                    4    EMPLOYERS THINK TOO YOUNG OR TOO OLD
                    5    OTHER TYPES OF DISCRIMINATION
                    6    CAN'T ARRANGE CHILD CARE
                    7    FAMILY RESPONSIBILITIES


                    8    IN SCHOOL OR OTHER TRAINING
                    9    ILL-HEALTH, PHYSICAL DISABILITY
                    10   TRANSPORTATION PROBLEMS
                    11   OTHER - SPECIFY

PEDWLKO      2      DID YOU LOOK FOR WORK AT ANY TIME             351 - 352
                    IN THE LAST 12 MONTHS
                                          6-43
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                      LOCATION



                  EDITED UNIVERSE:   (PUDWCK4 = 1-3) or (PEDWRSN = 1-11)

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO

PEDWWK     2      DID YOU ACTUALLY WORK AT A JOB OR                353 - 354
                  BUSINESS DURING THE LAST 12 MONTHS?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:   PEDWLKO = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO

PEDW4WK    2      DID YOU DO ANY OF THIS WORK DURING               355 - 356
                  THE LAST 4 WEEKS?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:   PEDWWK = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO

PEDWLKWK   2      SINCE YOU LEFT THAT JOB OR                       357 - 358
                  BUSINESS HAVE YOU LOOKED FOR WORK?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:   PEDW4WK = 2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO


PEDWAVL    2      LAST WEEK, COULD YOU HAVE STARTED                359 - 360
                  A JOB IF ONE HAD BEEN OFFERED?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:   (PEDWWK = 2) or (PEDWLKWK = 1)

                  VALID ENTRIES

                                     6-44
NAME      SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                    LOCATION


                 1   YES
                 2   NO

PEDWAVR   2      WHY IS THAT?                                   361 - 362

                 EDITED UNIVERSE:     PEDWAVL = 2

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   OWN TEMPORARY ILLNESS
                 2   GOING TO SCHOOL
                 3   OTHER

PUDWCK1   2      SCREEN FOR DISCOURAGED WORKERS                 363 - 364

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   IF ENTRY OF 2 IN BUS2 GOTO PUSCHCK
                 2   IF ENTRY OF 3 ON ABSRSN GOTO PUNLFCK1
                 3   IF ENTRY OF 1 IN RET1, STORE 1 IN DWWNTO
                     AND GOTO PUDWCK4
                 4   ALL OTHERS GOTO PUDWWNT

PUDWCK2   2      SCREEN FOR DISABLED                            365 - 366

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   IF ENTRY IN DIS1 OR DIS2 GOTO PUJHCK1-C
                 2   IF ENTRY OF 4 IN DWWNT GOTO PUDIS1
                 3   IF ENTRY OF 5 IN DWWNT GOTO PUDIS2
                 4   ALL OTHERS GOTO PUDWCK4

PUDWCK3   2      FILTER FOR RETIRED                             367 - 368

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   IF AGERNG EQUALS 1-4 OR 9 GOTO PUDWCK4
                 2   ALL OTHERS GOTO PUNLFCK2

PUDWCK4   2      FILTER FOR PASSIVE JOB SEEKERS                 369 - 370

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   IF ENTRY OF 10 AND/OR 11 AND/OR 13
                     ONLY IN LKM1-LKM3 GOTO PUDWCK5
                 2   IF ENTRY OF 10 AND/OR 11 AND/OR 13
                                      6-45
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                        LOCATION


                      ONLY IN LKDK1-LKDK3 GOTO PUDWCK5
                  3   IF ENTRY OF 10 AND/OR 11 AND/OR 13
                      ONLY IN LKPS1-LKPS3 GOTO PUDWCK5
                  4   ALL OTHERS GOTO PUDWRSN

PUDWCK5    2      FILTER FOR PASSIVE JOB SEEKERS                    371 - 372

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   IF ENTRY OF 1 IN LK THEN STORE 1
                      IN DWLKO AND GOTO PUDWWK
                  2   ALL OTHERS GOTO PUDWLK

PEJHWKO    2      HAVE YOU WORKED AT A JOB OR BUSINESS              373 - 374
                  AT ANY TIME DURING THE PAST 12 MONTHS?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:    HRMIS = 4 or 8 AND PEMLR = 5, 6, AND 7

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO

PUJHDP1O   2      DID YOU DO ANY OF THIS WORK IN                    375 - 376
                  THE LAST 4 WEEKS?

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO

PEJHRSN    2      WHAT IS THE MAIN REASON YOU LEFT                  377 - 378
                  YOUR LAST JOB?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:    PEJHWKO = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   PERSONAL/FAMILY (INCLUDING PREGNANCY)
                  2   RETURN TO SCHOOL
                  3   HEALTH
                  4   RETIREMENT OR OLD AGE
                  5   TEMP, SEASONAL OR INTERMITTENT JOB COMPLETE
                  6   SLACK WORK/BUSINESS CONDITIONS
                  7   UNSATISFACTORY WORK ARRANGEMENTS (HRS, PAY, ETC.)
                  8   OTHER - SPECIFY
                                      6-46
NAME           SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                        LOCATION



PEJHWANT       2      DO YOU INTEND TO LOOK FOR WORK DURING              379 - 380
                      THE NEXT 12 MONTHS?

                      EDITED UNIVERSE:    (PEJHWKO = 2) or (PEJHRSN = 1-8)

                      VALID ENTRIES

                      1   YES, OR IT DEPENDS
                      2   NO

PUJHCK1    2          FILTER FOR OUTGOING ROTATIONS                      381 - 382

                      VALID ENTRIES

                      1   PURET1 = 1, -2, OR -3
                          THEN GOTO NLFCK2
                      2   IF MISCK EQUALS 4 OR 8
                          THEN GOTO PUJHCK2
                      3   ALL OTHERS GOTO PUNLFCK1

PUJHCK2    2          FILTER FOR PERSONS GOING THROUGH THE               383 - 384
                      I AND O SERIES

                      VALID ENTRIES

                      1   IF ENTRY OF 1 IN DWWK AND I-MLR= 3, 4
                          THEN STORE 1 IN JHWKO, STORE
                          DW4WK IN JHDP1O AND GOTO PUJHRSN
                      2   IF ENTRY OF 2, D OR R IN DWWK THEN STORE DWWK IN
                          JHWKO AND GOTO PUJHWANT
                      3   ALL OTHERS GOTO PUJHWK

PRABSREA       2      REASON NOT AT WORK AND PAY STATUS                  385 - 386


                      EDITED UNIVERSE:    PEMLR = 2

                      VALID ENTRIES

                      1   FT PAID-VACATION
                      2   FT PAID-OWN ILLNESS
                      3   FT PAID-CHILD CARE PROBLEMS
                      4   FT PAID-OTHER FAMILY/PERSONAL OBLIG.
                      5   FT PAID-MATERNITY/PATERNITY LEAVE
                      6   FT PAID-LABOR DISPUTE
                                          6-47
NAME      SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                    LOCATION


                 7    FT PAID-WEATHER AFFECTED JOB
                 8    FT PAID-SCHOOL/TRAINING
                 9    FT PAID-CIVIC/MILITARY DUTY
                 10   FT PAID-OTHER
                 11   FT UNPAID-VACATION
                 12   FT UNPAID-OWN ILLNESS
                 13   FT UNPAID-CHILD CARE PROBLEMS
                 14   FT UNPAID-OTHER FAM/PERSONAL OBLIGATION
                 15   FT UNPAID-MATERNITY/PATERNITY LEAVE
                 16   FT UNPAID-LABOR DISPUTE
                 17   FT UNPAID-WEATHER AFFECTED JOB
                 18   FT UNPAID-SCHOOL/TRAINING
                 19   FT UNPAID-CIVIC/MILITARY DUTY
                 20   FT UNPAID-OTHER
                 21   PT PAID-VACATION
                 22   PT PAID-OWN ILLNESS
                 23   PT PAID-CHILD CARE PROBLEMS
                 24   PT PAID-OTHER FAMILY/PERSONAL OBLIG.
                 25   PT PAID-MATERNITY/PATERNITY LEAVE
                 26   PT PAID-LABOR DISPUTE
                 27   PT PAID-WEATHER AFFECTED JOB
                 28   PT PAID-SCHOOL/TRAINING
                 29   PT PAID-CIVIC/MILITARY DUTY
                 30   PT PAID-OTHER
                 31   PT UNPAID-VACATION
                 32   PT UNPAID-OWN ILLNESS
                 33   PT UNPAID-CHILD CARE PROBLEMS
                 34   PT UNPAID-OTHER FAM/PERSONAL OBLIGATION
                 35   PT UNPAID-MATERNITY/PATERNITY LEAVE
                 36   PT UNPAID-LABOR DISPUTE
                 37   PT UNPAID-WEATHER AFFECTED JOB
                 38   PT UNPAID-SCHOOL/TRAINING
                 39   PT UNPAID-CIVIC/MILITARY DUTY
                 40   PT UNPAID-OTHER


PRCIVLF   2      CIVILIAN LABOR FORCE                           387 - 388

                 EDITED UNIVERSE:    PEMLR = 1-7

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 01   IN CIVILIAN LABOR FORCE
                 02   NOT IN CIVILIAN LABOR FORCE

PRDISC    2      DISCOURAGED WORKER RECODE                      389 - 390
                                     6-48
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                    LOCATION



                  EDITED UNIVERSE:   PRJOBSEA = 1-4

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    DISCOURAGED WORKER
                  2    CONDITIONALLY INTERESTED
                  3    NOT AVAILABLE

PREMPHRS   2      REASON NOT AT WORK OR HOURS AT WORK            391 - 392

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:   PEMLR = 1-7

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    UNEMPLOYED AND NILF
                  1    W/JOB, NOT AT WORK-ILLNES
                  2    W/JOB, NOT AT WORK-VACATION
                  3    W/JOB, NOT AT WORK-WEATHER AFFECTED JOB
                  4    W/JOB, NOT AT WORK-LABOR DISPUTE
                  5    W/JOB, NOT AT WORK-CHILD CARE PROBLEMS
                  6    W/JOB, NOT AT WORK-FAM/PERS OBLIGATION
                  7    W/JOB, NOT AT WORK-MATERNITY/PATERNITY
                  8    W/JOB, NOT AT WORK-SCHOOL/TRAINING
                  9    W/JOB, NOT AT WORK-CIVIC/MILITARY DUTY
                  10   W/JOB, NOT AT WORK-DOES NOT WORK IN BUS
                  11   W/JOB, NOT AT WORK-OTHER
                  12   AT WORK- 1-4 HRS
                  13   AT WORK- 5-14 HRS
                  14   AT WORK- 15-21 HRS
                  15   AT WORK- 22-29 HRS
                  16   AT WORK- 30-34 HRS
                  17   AT WORK- 35-39 HRS
                  18   AT WORK- 40 HRS
                  19   AT WORK- 41-47 HRS
                  20   AT WORK- 48 HRS
                  21   AT WORK- 49-59 HRS
                  22   AT WORK- 60 HRS OR MORE

PREMPNOT   2      MLR - EMPLOYED, UNEMPLOYED, OR NILF            393 - 394

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:   PEMLR = 1-7

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    EMPLOYED
                                     6-49
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                  LOCATION


                  2   UNEMPLOYED
                  3   NOT IN LABOR FORCE (NILF)-discouraged
                  4   NOT IN LABOR FORCE (NILF)-other

PREXPLF    2      EXPERIENCED LABOR FORCE EMPLOYMENT           395 - 396

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:     PEMLR = 1-4 AND
                                       PELKLWO ne 3

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   EMPLOYED
                  2   UNEMPLOYED

PRFTLF     2      FULL TIME LABOR FORCE                        397 - 398

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:     PEMLR = 1-4

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   FULL TIME LABOR FORCE
                  2   PART TIME LABOR FORCE

PRHRUSL    2      USUAL HOURS WORKED WEEKLY                    399 - 400

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:     PEMLR = 1-2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   0-20 HRS
                  2   21-34 HRS
                  3   35-39 HRS
                  4   40 HRS
                  5   41-49 HRS
                  6   50 OR MORE HRS
                  7   VARIES-FULL TIME
                  8   VARIES-PART TIME

PRJOBSEA   2      JOB SEARCH RECODE                            401 - 402

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:     PRWNTJOB = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   LOOKED LAST 12 MONTHS, SINCE COMPLETING PREVIOUS JOB
                  2   LOOKED AND WORKED IN THE LAST 4 WEEKS
                                       6-50
NAME      SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                      LOCATION


                 3    LOOKED LAST 4 WEEKS - LAYOFF
                 4    UNAVAILABLE JOB SEEKERS
                 5    NO RECENT JOB SEARCH

PRPTHRS   2      AT WORK 1-34 BY HOURS AT WORK                    403 - 404

                 EDITED UNIVERSE:    PEMLR = 1 AND
                                     PEHRACTT = 1-34
                 VALID ENTRIES

                 0    USUALLY FT, PT FOR NONECONOMIC REASONS
                 1    USUALLY.FT, PT ECON REASONS; 1-4 HRS
                 2    USUALLY.FT, PT ECON REASONS; 5-14 HRS
                 3    USUALLY.FT, PT ECON REASONS; 15-29 HRS
                 4    USUALLY.FT, PT ECON REASONS; 30-34 HRS
                 5    USUALLY.PT, ECON REASONS; 1-4 HRS
                 6    USUALLY.PT, ECON REASONS; 5-14 HRS
                 7    USUALLY.PT, ECON REASONS; 15-29 HRS
                 8    USUALLY.PT, ECON REASONS; 30-34 HRS
                 9    USUALLY.PT, NON-ECON REASONS; 1-4 HRS
                 10   USUALLY.PT, NON-ECON REASONS; 5-14 HRS
                 11   USUALLY.PT, NON-ECON REASONS; 15-29 HRS
                 12   USUALLY.PT, NON-ECON REASONS; 30-34 HRS

PRPTREA   2      DETAILED REASON FOR PART-TIME                    405 - 406

                 EDITED UNIVERSE:    PEMLR = 1 AND
                                     (PEHRUSLT = 0-34 OR PEHRACTT = 1-34)

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1    USU. FT-SLACK WORK/BUSINESS CONDITIONS
                 2    USU. FT-SEASONAL WORK
                 3    USU. FT-JOB STARTED/ENDED DURING WEEK
                 4    USU. FT-VACATION/PERSONAL DAY
                 5    USU. FT-OWN ILLNESS/INJURY/MEDICAL APPOINTMENT
                 6    USU. FT-HOLIDAY (RELIGIOUS OR LEGAL)
                 7    USU. FT-CHILD CARE PROBLEMS
                 8    USU. FT-OTHER FAM/PERS OBLIGATIONS
                 9    USU. FT-LABOR DISPUTE
                 10   USU. FT-WEATHER AFFECTED JOB
                 11   USU. FT-SCHOOL/TRAINING
                 12   USU. FT-CIVIC/MILITARY DUTY
                 13   USU. FT-OTHER REASON
                 14   USU. PT-SLACK WORK/BUSINESS CONDITIONS
                 15   USU. PT-COULD ONLY FIND PT WORK
                                     6-51
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                     LOCATION


                  16   USU. PT-SEASONAL WORK
                  17   USU. PT-CHILD CARE PROBLEMS
                  18   USU. PT-OTHER FAM/PERS OBLIGATIONS
                  19   USU. PT-HEALTH/MEDICAL LIMITATIONS
                  20   USU. PT-SCHOOL/TRAINING
                  21   USU. PT-RETIRED/S.S. LIMIT ON EARNINGS
                  22   USU. PT-WORKWEEK <35 HOURS
                  23   USU. PT-OTHER REASON

PRUNEDUR   3      DURATION OF UNEMPLOYMENT FOR                    407 - 409
                  LAYOFF AND LOOKING RECORDS

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:      PEMLR = 3-4

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0   MIN VALUE
                  119 MAX VALUE

                  Topcoded consistent with PELAYDUR or PELKDUR,
                  as appropriate, starting April 2011.


FILLER     2                                                      410 - 411

PRUNTYPE   2      REASON FOR UNEMPLOYMENT                         412 - 413

                  EDITED UNIVERSE: PEMLR = 3-4

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    JOB LOSER/ON LAYOFF
                  2    OTHER JOB LOSER
                  3    TEMPORARY JOB ENDED
                  4    JOB LEAVER
                  5    RE-ENTRANT
                  6    NEW-ENTRANT

PRWKSCH    2      LABOR FORCE BY TIME                             414 - 415
                  WORKED OR LOST

                  EDITED UNIVERSE: PEMLR = 1 - 7

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    NOT IN LABOR FORCE
                                        6-52
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                      LOCATION


                  1    AT WORK
                  2    WITH JOB, NOT AT WORK
                  3    UNEMPLOYED, SEEKS FT
                  4    UNEMPLOYED, SEEKS PT

PRWKSTAT   2      FULL/PART-TIME WORK STATUS                       416 - 417

                  EDITED UNIVERSE: PEMLR = 1-7

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    NOT IN LABOR FORCE
                  2    FT HOURS (35+), USUALLY FT
                  3    PT FOR ECONOMIC REASONS, USUALLY FT
                  4    PT FOR NON-ECONOMIC REASONS, USUALLY FT
                  5    NOT AT WORK, USUALLY FT
                  6    PT HRS, USUALLY PT FOR ECONOMIC REASONS
                  7    PT HRS, USUALLY PT FOR NON-ECONOMIC REASONS
                  8    FT HOURS, USUALLY PT FOR ECONOMIC REASONS
                  9    FT HOURS, USUALLY PT FOR NON-ECONOMIC
                  10   NOT AT WORK, USUALLY PART-TIME
                  11   UNEMPLOYED FT
                  12   UNEMPLOYED PT

PRWNTJOB   2      NILF RECODE - WANT A JOB OR OTHER NILF           418 - 419

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:     PEMLR = 5-7


                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    WANT A JOB
                  2    OTHER NOT IN LABOR FORCE

PUJHCK3    2      JOB HISTORY CHECK ITEM                           420 - 421

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    IF I-MLR EQ 3 OR 4 THEN GOTO PUJHDP1
                  2    ALL OTHERS GOTO PUJHRSN

PUJHCK4    2      SCREEN FOR DEPENDENT NILF                        422 - 423

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    IF ENTRY OF 2, D OR R IN PUDW4WK OR IN PUJHDP1O
                                       6-53
NAME      SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                   LOCATION


                     THEN GOTO PUJHCK5
                 2   IF ENTRY OF 1 IN PUDW4WK OR IN PUJHDP10
                     THEN GOTO PUIO1INT
                 3   IF I-MLR EQUALS 1 OR 2 AND ENTRY IN
                     PUJHRSN THEN GOTO PUJHCK5
                 4   IF ENTRY IN PUJHRSN THEN GOTO PUIO1INT
                 5   ALL OTHERS GOTO PUNLFCK1

PUJHCK5   2      SCREEN FOR DEPENDENT NILF                     424 - 425

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   IF I-IO1ICR EQUALS 1 OR I-IO1OCR
                     EQUALS 1 THEN GOTO PUIO1INT
                 2   ALL OTHERS GOTO PUIOCK5

PUIODP1   2      LAST MONTH, IT WAS REPORTED THAT YOU          426 - 427
                 WORKED FOR (EMPLOYER'S NAME). DO
                 STILL WORK FOR (EMPLOYER'S NAME)
                 (AT YOUR MAIN JOB)?



                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   YES
                 2   NO

PUIODP2   2      HAVE THE USUAL ACTIVITIES AND DUTIES          428 - 429
                 OF YOUR JOB CHANGED SINCE LAST MONTH?

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   YES
                 2   NO

PUIODP3   2      LAST MONTH YOU WERE REPORTED AS (A/AN)      430 - 431
                 (OCCUPATION) AND YOUR USUAL ACTIVITIES WERE
                 (DESCRIPTION). IS THIS AN ACCURATE
                 DESCRIPTION OF YOUR CURRENT JOB?

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1   YES
                 2   NO

                                      6-54
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                          LOCATION


PEIO1COW   2      INDIVIDUAL CLASS OF WORKER CODE                      432 - 433
                  ON FIRST JOB

                  NOTE: A PEIO1COW CODE CAN BE ASSIGNED
                  EVEN IF AN INDIVIDUAL IS NOT CURRENTLY
                  EMPLOYED.

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:        (PEMLR = 1-3) OR
                                          (PEMLR = 4 AND PELKLWO = 1-2) OR
                                          (PEMLR = 5 AND (PENLFJH = 1 OR PEJHWKO = 1))
                                          OR (PEMLR = 6 AND PENLFJH = 1) OR
                                          (PEMLR = 7 AND (PENLFJH = 1 OR PEJHWKO = 1))

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   GOVERNMENT - FEDERAL
                  2   GOVERNMENT - STATE
                  3   GOVERNMENT - LOCAL
                  4   PRIVATE, FOR PROFIT
                  5   PRIVATE, NONPROFIT
                  6   SELF-EMPLOYED, INCORPORATED
                  7   SELF-EMPLOYED, UNINCORPORATED
                  8   WITHOUT PAY

PUIO1MFG   2      IS THIS BUSINESS OR ORGANIZATION MAINLY              434 - 435
                  MANUFACTURING, RETAIL TRADE,
                  WHOLESALE TRADE, OR SOMETHING ELSE?

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   MANUFACTURING
                  2   RETAIL TRADE
                  3   WHOLESALE TRADE
                  4   SOMETHING ELSE

PADDING    6      Main Job I & O Codes moved to columns 856 - 863      436 - 441

PEIO2COW   2      INDIVIDUAL CLASS OF WORKER ON                   442 - 443
                  SECOND JOB.
                  NOTE: FOR THOSE SELF-EMPLOYED UNINCORPORATED
                  ON THEIR FIRST JOB, THIS SHOULD HAVE A RESPONSE
                  EVERY MONTH. FOR ALL OTHERS, THIS SHOULD ONLY
                  HAVE A VALUE IN OUT-GOING ROTATIONS.

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:        PRIOELG = 1 and PEMJOT = 1 AND HRMIS = 4,8

                                          6-55
NAME           SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                          LOCATION


                      VALID ENTRIES

                      1   GOVERNMENT - FEDERAL
                      2   GOVERNMENT - STATE
                      3   GOVERNMENT - LOCAL
                      4   PRIVATE, FOR PROFIT
                      5   PRIVATE, NONPROFIT
                      6   SELF-EMPLOYED, INCORPORATED
                      7   SELF-EMPLOYED, UNINCORPORATED
                      8   WITHOUT PAY


PUIO2MFG       2      IS THIS BUSINESS OR ORGANIZATION MAINLY    444 - 445
                      MANUFACTURING, RETAIL TRADE, WHOLESALE TRADE,
                      OR SOMETHING ELSE?

                      VALID ENTRIES

                      1   MANUFACTURING
                      2   RETAIL TRADE
                      3   WHOLESALE TRADE
                      4   SOMETHING ELSE

PADDING        6      Second Job I & O codes moved to columns 864 - 871    446 - 451

PUIOCK1        2      I & O CHECK ITEM 1                                   452 - 453
                      SCREEN FOR DEPENDENT I AND O

                      VALID ENTRIES

                      1   IF {MISCK EQ 1 OR 5)
                          OR MISCK EQ 2-4, 6-8 AND I-MLR EQ 3-7)
                          AND ENTRY OF 1 IN ABS} THEN GOTO PUIO1INT
                      2   IF (MISCK EQ 1 OR 5)
                          OR {(MISCK EQ 2-4, 6-8 AND I-MLR EQ 3-7)
                          AND ( ENTRY OF 1 IN WK OR HRCK7-C IS BLANK, 1-3)}
                          GOTO PUIO1INT
                      3   IF I-IO1NAM IS D, R OR BLANK THEN GOTO PUIO1INT
                      4   ALL OTHERS GOTO PUIODP1

PUIOCK2    2          I & O CHECK ITEM 2                                  454 - 455
                      SCREEN FOR PREVIOUS MONTHS I AND O CASES

                      VALID ENTRIES

                      1   IF I-IO1ICR EQ 1 THEN GOTO PUIO1IND
                                              6-56
NAME          SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                      LOCATION


                     2   IF I-IO1OCR EQ 1 THEN GOTO PUIO1OCC
                     3   ALL OTHERS GOTO PUIODP2

PUIOCK3   2          I & O CHECK ITEM 3                              456 - 457

                     VALID ENTRIES

                     1   IF I-IO1OCC EQUALS D, R OR BLANK THEN GOTO PUIO1OCC
                     2   IF I-IO1DT1 IS D, R OR BLANK THEN GOTO PUIO1OCC
                     3   ALL OTHERS GOTO PUIODP3


PRIOELG   2          INDUSTRY AND OCCUPATION                         458 - 459
                     ELIGIBILITY FLAG

                     EDITED UNIVERSE:     PEMLR = 1-3,
                                          OR (PEMLR = 4 AND PELKLWO = 1 OR 2)
                                          OR (PEMLR = 5 AND
                                          (PEJHWKO = 1 OR PENLFJH=1),
                                          OR (PEMLR = 6 AND PENLFJH = 1),
                                          OR PEMLR = 7 AND PEJHWKO = 1)


                     VALID ENTRIES

                     0   NOT ELIGIBLE FOR EDIT
                     1   ELIGIBLE FOR EDIT


PRAGNA        2      AGRICULTURE/                                     460 - 461
                     NON-AGRICULTURE INDUSTRY

                     EDITED UNIVERSE:     PRIOELG = 1

                     VALID ENTRIES

                     1   AGRICULTURAL
                     2   NON-AGRICULTURAL

PRCOW1        2      CLASS OF WORKER                                  462 - 463
                     RECODE - JOB 1

                     EDITED UNIVERSE:     PRIOELG = 1

                     VALID ENTRIES

                                          6-57
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                   LOCATION


                  1   FEDERAL GOVT
                  2   STATE GOVT
                  3   LOCAL GOVT
                  4   PRIVATE (INCL. SELF-EMPLOYED INCORP.)
                  5   SELF-EMPLOYED, UNINCORP.
                  6   WITHOUT PAY

PRCOW2     2      CLASS OF WORKER                               464 - 465
                  RECODE - JOB 2

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:   PRIOELG = 1 AND PEMJOT = 1 AND
                                     HRMIS = 4 OR 8

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   FEDERAL GOVT
                  2   STATE GOVT
                  3   LOCAL GOVT
                  4   PRIVATE (INCL. SELF-EMPLOYED INCORP.)
                  5   SELF-EMPLOYED, UNINCORP.
                  6   WITHOUT PAY


PRCOWPG    2      COW - PRIVATE OR GOVERNMENT                   466 - 467

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:   PEIO1COW = 1 - 5


                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   PRIVATE
                  2   GOVERNMENT

PRDTCOW1   2      DETAILED CLASS OF WORKER RECODE - JOB 1       468 - 469

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:   PRIOELG = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   AGRI., WAGE & SALARY, PRIVATE
                  2   AGRI., WAGE & SALARY, GOVERNMENT
                  3   AGRI., SELF-EMPLOYED
                  4   AGRI., UNPAID
                  5   NONAG, WS, PRIVATE, PRIVATE HHLDS
                  6   NONAG, WS, PRIVATE, OTHER PRIVATE
                  7   NONAG, WS, GOVT, FEDERAL
                                     6-58
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                          LOCATION


                  8    NONAG, WS, GOVT, STATE
                  9    NONAG, WS, GOVT, LOCAL
                  10   NONAG, SELF-EMPLOYED
                  11   NONAG, UNPAID

PRDTCOW2   2      DETAILED CLASS OF WORKER RECODE - JOB 2              470 - 471

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:       PRIOELG = 1 AND PEMJOT = 1 AND
                                         HRMIS = 4 OR 8

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    AGRI., WAGE & SALARY, PRIVATE
                  2    AGRI., WAGE & SALARY, GOVERNMENT
                  3    AGRI., SELF-EMPLOYED
                  4    AGRI., UNPAID
                  5    NONAG, WS, PRIVATE, PRIVATE HHLDS
                  6    NONAG, WS, PRIVATE, OTHER PRIVATE
                  7    NONAG, WS, GOVT, FEDERAL
                  8    NONAG, WS, GOVT, STATE
                  9    NONAG, WS, GOVT, LOCAL
                  10   NONAG, SELF-EMPLOYED
                  11   NONAG, UNPAID

PRDTIND1   2      DETAILED INDUSTRY RECODE - JOB 1                     472 - 473

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:       PRIOELG = 1


                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    Agriculture
                  2    Forestry, logging, fishing, and hunting
                  3    Mining, quarrying, and oil and gas extraction
                  4    Construction
                  5    Nonmetallic mineral product manufacturing
                  6    Primary metals and fabricated metal products
                  7    Machinery manufacturing
                  8    Computer and electronic product manufacturing
                  9    Electrical equipment, appliance manufacturing
                  10   Transportation equipment manufacturing
                  11   Wood products
                  12   Furniture and fixtures manufacturing
                  13   Miscellaneous and not specified manufacturing
                  14   Food manufacturing
                  15   Beverage and tobacco products
                                         6-59
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                                LOCATION


                  16   Textile, apparel, and leather manufacturing
                  17   Paper and printing
                  18   Petroleum and coal products manufacturing
                  19   Chemical manufacturing
                  20   Plastics and rubber products
                  21   Wholesale trade
                  22   Retail trade
                  23   Transportation and warehousing
                  24   Utilities
                  25   Publishing industries (except internet)
                  26   Motion picture and sound recording industries
                  27   Broadcasting (except internet)
                  28   Internet publishing and broadcasting
                  29   Telecommunications
                  30   Internet service providers and data processing services
                  31   Other information services
                  32   Finance
                  33   Insurance
                  34   Real estate
                  35   Rental and leasing services
                  36   Professional, scientific, and technical services
                  37   Management of companies and enterprises
                  38   Administrative and support services
                  39   Waste management and remediation services
                  40   Educational services
                  41   Hospitals
                  42   Health care services, except hospitals
                  43   Social assistance services
                  44   Arts, entertainment, and recreation
                  45   Accommodation
                  46   Food services and drinking places
                  47   Repair and maintenance
                  48   Personal and laundry services
                  49   Membership associations and organizations
                  50   Private households
                  51   Public administration
                  52   Armed forces

PRDTIND2   2      DETAILED INDUSTRY RECODE - JOB 2                           474 - 475

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:        PRIOELG = 1 AND PEMJOT = 1 AND HRMIS = 4 OR 8


                                           6-60
NAME   SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                                LOCATION


              VALID ENTRIES

              1    Agriculture
              2    Forestry, logging, fishing, and hunting
              3    Mining, quarrying, and oil and gas extraction
              4    Construction
              5    Nonmetallic mineral product manufacturing
              6    Primary metals and fabricated metal products
              7    Machinery manufacturing
              8    Computer and electronic product manufacturing
              9    Electrical equipment, appliance manufacturing
              10   Transportation equipment manufacturing
              11   Wood products
              12   Furniture and fixtures manufacturing
              13   Miscellaneous and not specified manufacturing
              14   Food manufacturing
              15   Beverage and tobacco products
              16   Textile, apparel, and leather manufacturing
              17   Paper and printing
              18   Petroleum and coal products manufacturing
              19   Chemical manufacturing
              20   Plastics and rubber products
              21   Wholesale trade
              22   Retail trade
              23   Transportation and warehousing
              24   Utilities
              25   Publishing industries (except internet)
              26   Motion picture and sound recording industries
              27   Broadcasting (except internet)
              28   Internet publishing and broadcasting
              29   Telecommunications
              30   Internet service providers and data processing services
              31   Other information services
              32   Finance
              33   Insurance
              34   Real estate
              35   Rental and leasing services
              36   Professional, scientific, and technical services
              37   Management of companies and enterprises
              38   Administrative and support services
              39   Waste management and remediation services
              40   Educational services
              41   Hospitals

                                       6-61
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                               LOCATION


                  42   Health care services, except hospitals
                  43   Social assistance services
                  44   Arts, entertainment, and recreation
                  45   Accommodation
                  46   Food services and drinking places
                  47   Repair and maintenance
                  48   Personal and laundry services
                  49   Membership associations and organizations
                  50   Private households
                  51   Public administration
                  52   Armed forces

PRDTOCC1   2      DETAILED OCCUPATION RECODE - JOB 1                        476 - 477

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:         PRIOELG = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1     Management occupations
                  2     Business and financial operations occupations
                  3     Computer and mathematical occupations
                  4     Architecture and engineering occupations
                  5     Life, physical, and social science occupations
                  6     Community and social service occupations
                  7     Legal occupations
                  8     Education instruction and library occupations
                  9     Arts, design, entertainment, sports, and media
                        occupations
                  10    Healthcare practitioner and technical occupations
                  11    Healthcare support occupations
                  12    Protective service occupations
                  13    Food preparation and serving related occupations
                  14    Building and grounds cleaning and maintenance
                        occupations
                  15    Personal care and service occupations
                  16    Sales and related occupations
                  17    Office and administrative support occupations
                  18    Farming, fishing, and forestry occupations
                  19    Construction and extraction occupations
                  20    Installation, maintenance, and repair occupations
                  21    Production occupations
                  22    Transportation and material moving occupations
                  23    Armed Forces

                                           6-62
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                            LOCATION


PRDTOCC2   2      DETAILED OCCUPATION RECODE - JOB 2                          478 - 479

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:       PRIOELG = 1 AND PEMJOT = 1 AND HRMIS = 4 OR 8

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   Management occupations
                  2   Business and financial operations occupations
                  3   Computer and mathematical occupations
                  4   Architecture and engineering occupations
                  5   Life, physical, and social science occupations
                  6   Community and social service occupations
                  7   Legal occupations
                  8   Education instruction and library occupations
                  9  Arts, design, entertainment, sports, and media
                      occupations
                  10 Healthcare practitioner and technical occupations
                  11 Healthcare support occupations
                  12 Protective service occupations
                  13 Food preparation and serving related occupations
                  14 Building and grounds cleaning and maintenance
                      occupations
                  15 Personal care and service occupations
                  16 Sales and related occupations
                  17 Office and administrative support occupations
                  18 Farming, fishing, and forestry occupations
                  19 Construction and extraction occupations
                  20 Installation, maintenance, and repair occupations
                  21 Production occupations
                  22 Transportation and material moving occupations
                  23 Armed Forces

PREMP      2      EMPLOYED PERSONS (NON-FARM                             480 - 481
                  & NON-PRIVATE HHLD) RECODE

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:       PEMLR = 1 OR 2
                                         AND PEIO1OCD ne 403-407, 473-484

                  VALID ENTRY

                  1   EMPLOYED PERSONS (EXC. FARM & PRIV HH)

PRMJIND1   2      MAJOR INDUSTRY RECODE - JOB 1                          482 - 483
                                         6-63
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                        LOCATION



                   EDITED UNIVERSE:          PRDTIND1 = 1-51

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    Agriculture, forestry, fishing, and hunting
                  2    Mining
                  3    Construction
                  4    Manufacturing
                  5    Wholesale and retail trade
                  6    Transportation and utilities
                  7    Information
                  8    Financial activities
                  9    Professional and business services
                  10   Educational and health services
                  11   Leisure and hospitality
                  12   Other services
                  13   Public administration
                  14   Armed Forces

PRMJIND2   2      MAJOR INDUSTRY RECODE - JOB 2                      484 - 485

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:         PRDTIND2 = 1-51


                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1 Agriculture, forestry, fishing, and hunting
                  2 Mining
                  3 Construction
                  4 Manufacturing
                  5 Wholesale and retail trade
                  6 Transportation and utilities
                  7 Information
                  8 Financial activities
                  9 Professional and business services
                  10 Educational and health services
                  11 Leisure and hospitality
                  12 Other services
                  13 Public administration
                  14 Armed Forces

PRMJOCC1   2      MAJOR OCCUPATION RECODE                            486 - 487
                                           6-64
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                              LOCATION


                  - JOB 1

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:        PRDTOCC1 = 1-23

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    Management, business, and financial occupations
                  2    Professional and related occupations
                  3    Service occupations
                  4    Sales and related occupations
                  5    Office and administrative support occupations
                  6    Farming, fishing, and forestry occupations
                  7    Construction and extraction occupations
                  8    Installation, maintenance, and repair occupations
                  9    Production occupations
                  10   Transportation and material moving occupations
                  11   Armed Forces


PRMJOCC2   2      MAJOR OCCUPATION RECODE                                  488 - 489
                  - JOB 2

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:        PRDTOCC2 = 1-23

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    Management, business, and financial occupations
                  2    Professional and related occupations
                  3    Service occupations
                  4    Sales and related occupations
                  5    Office and administrative support occupations
                  6    Farming, fishing, and forestry occupations
                  7    Construction and extraction occupations
                  8    Installation, maintenance, and repair occupations
                  9    Production occupations
                  10   Transportation and material moving occupations
                  11   Armed Forces

PRMJOCGR   2      MAJOR OCCUPATION CATEGORIES                              490 - 491

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:        PRMJOCC = 1-11

                  VALID ENTRIES

                                          6-65
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                             LOCATION


                  1   Management, professional, and related occupations
                  2   Service occupations
                  3   Sales and office occupations
                  4   Farming, fishing, and forestry occupations
                  5   Construction, and maintenance occupations
                  6   Production, transportation, and material moving
                      occupations
                  7   Armed Forces

PRNAGPWS   2      NON-AGRICULTURE, PRIVATE                                492 - 493
                  WAGE AND SALARY WORKERS RECODE

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:      PRCOW1 = 1 AND
                                        PEIO1ICD ne 0170 - 0890

                  VALID ENTRY

                  1   NON-AG PRIV WAGE & SALARY
                       NON-AGRICULTURE WAGE AND
                       SALARY WORKERS RECODE

PRNAGWS           NON-AGRICULTURE WAGE AND                                494 - 495
                     SALARY WORKERS RECODE

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:      PEMLR = 1-4
                                        AND PRCOW = 1-4
                                        AND PEIO1ICD ne 0170-0290
                  VALID ENTRY

                  1   NON-AG WAGE AND SALARY WORKERS
                      SINGLE/MULTIPLE JOBHOLDER RECODE

PRSJMS            SINGLE/MULTIPLE JOBHOLDER RECODE                        496 – 497

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:      PEMLR = 1 OR 2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   SINGLE JOBHOLDER
                  2   MULTIPLE JOBHOLDER

PRERELG    2      EARNINGS ELIGIBILITY FLAG                               498 - 499

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:     PEMLR = 1-2 AND HRMIS = 4 OR 8

                                        6-66
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                              LOCATION


                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0   NOT ELIGIBLE FOR EDIT
                  1   ELIGIBLE FOR EDIT

PEERNUOT   2      DO YOU USUALLY RECEIVE OVERTIME PAY,     500 - 501
                  TIPS, OR COMMISSIONS AT YOUR JOB?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:      PRERELG = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO

PEERNPER   2      PERIODICITY                              502 - 503

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:      PRERELG = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   HOURLY
                  2   WEEKLY
                  3   BI-WEEKLY
                  4   TWICE MONTHLY
                  5   MONTHLY
                  6   ANNUALLY
                  7   OTHER – SPECIFY

PEERNRT    2      (EVEN THOUGH YOU TOLD ME IT IS EASIER    504 - 505
                  TO REPORT YOUR EARNINGS (PERIODICITY);
                  ARE YOU PAID AT AN HOURLY RATE ON
                  YOUR (MAIN/THIS) JOB?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:      PEERNPER = 2-7

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO

PEERNHRY   2      HOURLY/NONHOURLY STATUS                  506 - 507

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:      PRERELG = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES
                                        6-67
NAME           SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                                   LOCATION



                      1    HOURLY WORKER
                      2    NONHOURLY WORKER

PTERNH1C       4      WHAT IS YOUR HOURLY RATE OF PAY ON                             508 - 511
                      THIS JOB, EXCLUDING OVERTIME PAY, TIPS
                      OR COMMISSION?
                      DOLLAR AMOUNT - 2 IMPLIED DECIMALS
                      ROIUNDED and TOPCODED

                      VALID ENTRIES

                      0         MIN VALUE
                      **        MAX VALUE

                      ** The MAX value will change monthly as each month’s file is topcoded
                      based on that values. The topcode value for each month is NOT rounded
                      and is the weighted average of the top 3 percent of that month’s values.



PTERNH2    4          (EXCLUDING OVERTIME PAY, TIPS AND                             512 - 515
                      COMMISSIONS) WHAT IS YOUR HOURLY RATE
                      OF PAY ON YOUR (MAIN/THIS) JOB?
                      DOLLAR AMOUNT - 2 IMPLIED DECIMALS
                      ROUNDED and TOPCODED

                      EDITED UNIVERSE:          PEERNRT = 1

                      VALID ENTRIES

                      0    MIN VALUE
                      **   MAX VALUE

                      ** The MAX value will change monthly as each month’s file is topcoded
                      based on that values. The topcode value for each month is NOT rounded
                      and is the weighted average of the top 3 percent of that month’s values.




PTERNH1O       4      OUT VARIABLE FOR HOURLY                                        516 - 519
                      RATE OF PAY (2 IMPLIED DECIMAL PLACES)
                      EDITED UNIVERSE:     PEERNPER = 1
                      ROUNDED and TOPCODED

                                                6-68
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                                   LOCATION


                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    MIN VALUE
                  **   MAX VALUE

                  ** The MAX value will change monthly as each month’s file is topcoded
                  based on that values. The topcode value for each month is NOT rounded
                  and is the weighted average of the top 3 percent of that month’s values.



PTERNHLY   4      RECODE FOR HOURLY RATE                                         520 - 523
                  2 IMPLIED DECIMALS

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:  PEERNPER = 1 OR PEERNRT = 1
                  ROUNDED and TOPCODED

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    MIN VALUE
                  **   MAX VALUE

                  ** The MAX value will change monthly as each month’s file is topcoded
                  based on that values. The topcode value for each month is NOT rounded
                  and is the weighted average of the top 3 percent of that month’s values.


PTHR       1      HOURLY PAY - TOP CODE                                          524 - 524

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    NOT TOPCODED
                  1    TOPCODED

PEERNHRO   2      USUAL HOURS                                                   525 - 526

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:          PEERNH1O = ENTRY

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    MIN VALUE
                  99   MAX VALUE



PTERNWA    8      WEEKLY EARNINGS RECODE                                         527 - 534
                                            6-69
NAME       SIZE    DESCRIPTION                                                   LOCATION


                   ROUNDED and TOPCODED, REPORTED IN WHOLE DOLLARS

                   EDITED UNIVERSE:          PRERELG = 1

                   VALID ENTRIES

                   0         MIN VALUE
                   **        MAX VALUE

                   ** The MAX value will change monthly as each month’s file is topcoded
                   based on that values. The topcode value for each month is NOT rounded
                   and is the weighted average of the top 3 percent of that month’s values.

PTWK       1       WEEKLY EARNINGS - TOP CODE                                     535 - 535

                   0    NOT TOPCODED
                   1    TOPCODED


PRERNMIN   2      FEDERALLY MANDATED MINIMUM WAGE RATE FLAG                       536 - 537

                   -1   NIU
                    1   MINIMUM WAGE FLAG


FILLER     2                                                                      538 – 539



PTERN      6       CALCULATED WEEKLY OVERTIME AMOUNT                             540 - 547
                   ROUNDED and TOPCODED

                   EDITED UNIVERSE:          PEERNUOT = 1 AND PEERNPER = 1

                   VALID ENTRIES

                   0         MIN VALUE
                   **        MAX VALUE

                   ** The MAX value will change monthly as each month’s file is topcoded
                   based on that month’s values. The topcode value for each month is NOT rounded
                   and is the weighted average of the top 3 percent of that month’s values.



PTERN2     8       CALCULATED WEEKLY                                             548 - 555
                                             6-70
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                                LOCATION


                  OVERTIME AMOUNT WHOLE DOLLARS
                  ROUNDED and TOPCODED

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0          MIN VALUE
                  **         MAX VALUE

                  ** The MAX value will change monthly as each month’s file is topcoded
                  based on that month’s values. The topcode value for each month is NOT rounded
                  and is the weighted average of the top 3 percent of that month’s values.

PTOT       1      WEEKLY OVERTIME AMOUNT - TOP CODE                           556 - 556

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  0    NOT TOPCODED
                  1    TOPCODED


FILLER     2                                                                 557 - 558


PEERNWKP   2      HOW MANY WEEKS A YEAR DO YOU                                559 - 560
                  GET PAID FOR?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:         PEERNPER = 6


                  VALID ENTRIES

                  01   MIN VALUE
                  52   MAX VALUE

PEERNLAB   2      ON THIS JOB, ARE YOU A MEMBER OF A                         561 - 562
                  LABOR UNION OR OF AN EMPLOYEE ASSOCIATION
                  SIMILAR TO A UNION?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:         (PEIO1COW = 1-5 AND PEMLR = 1-2
                                            AND HRMIS = 4, 8)

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    YES
                  2    NO

                                           6-71
NAME           SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                      LOCATION


PEERNCOV       2      ON THIS JOB ARE YOU COVERED BY A UNION            563 - 564
                      OR EMPLOYEE ASSOCIATION CONTRACT?

                      EDITED UNIVERSE:   (PEIO1COW = 1-5 AND PEMLR = 1-2
                                         AND HRMIS = 4, 8)

                      VALID ENTRIES

                      1   YES
                      2   NO

PENLFJH    2          WHEN DID YOU LAST WORK AT A JOB                   565 - 566
                      OR BUSINESS?

                      EDITED UNIVERSE:   HRMIS = 4 OR 8 AND PEMLR = 3-7

                      VALID ENTRIES

                      1   WITHIN THE LAST 12 MONTHS
                      2   MORE THAN 12 MONTHS AGO
                      3   NEVER WORKED


PENLFRET       2      ARE YOU RETIRED FROM A JOB                        567 - 568
                      OR BUSINESS?

                      EDITED UNIVERSE:   PRTAGE = 50+ AND PEMLR = 3-7

                      VALID ENTRIES

                      1   YES
                      2   NO

PENLFACT       2      WHAT BEST DESCRIBES YOUR SITUATION AT             569 - 570
                      THIS TIME? FOR EXAMPLE, ARE YOU DISABLED,
                      ILL, IN SCHOOL, TAKING CARE OF HOUSE OR
                      FAMILY, OR SOMETHING ELSE?

                      EDITED UNIVERSE:   (PRTAGE = 14-49) or (PENLFRET = 2)

                      VALID ENTRIES

                      1   DISABLED
                      2   ILL
                      3   IN SCHOOL
                      4   TAKING CARE OF HOUSE OR FAMILY
                                         6-72
NAME           SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                      LOCATION


                      5   IN RETIREMENT
                      6   SOMETHING ELSE/OTHER

PUNLFCK1       2      NOT IN LABOR FORCE                                571 - 572
                      CHECK ITEM - 1

                      VALID ENTRIES

                      1   IF AGERNG EQUALS 1-4 OR 9
                          THEN GOTO NLFACT
                      2   ALL OTHERS GOT NLFRET

PUNLFCK2       2      NOT IN LABOR FORCE                               573 - 574
                      CHECK ITEM - 2

                      VALID ENTRIES

                      1   IF MISCK EQUALS 4 OR 8 THEN GOTO NLFJH
                      2   ALL OTHERS GOTO LBFR-END

PESCHENR       2      LAST WEEK, WERE YOU ENROLLED IN A                 575 - 576
                      HIGH SCHOOL, COLLEGE, OR UNIVERSITY?

                      EDITED UNIVERSE:     PRPERTYP = 2 and PRTAGE = 16-54

                      VALID ENTRIES

                      1   YES
                      2   NO

PESCHFT    2          ARE YOU ENROLLED IN SCHOOL AS A                   577 - 578
                      FULL-TIME OR PART-TIME STUDENT?

                      EDITED UNIVERSE:     PESCHLVL = 1, 2

                      VALID ENTRIES

                      1   FULL-TIME
                      2   PART-TIME

PESCHLVL       2      WOULD THAT BE HIGH SCHOOL, COLLEGE,               579 - 580
                      OR UNIVERSITY?

                      EDITED UNIVERSE:     PESCHENR = 1

                      VALID ENTRIES
                                           6-73
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                        LOCATION



                  1   HIGH SCHOOL
                  2   COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY

PRNLFSCH   2      NLF ACTIVITY - IN SCHOOL OR                        581 - 582
                  NOT IN SCHOOL

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:     PENLFACT = -1 OR 1-6 AND PRTAGE = 16-24

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   IN SCHOOL
                  2   NOT IN SCHOOL

                  PERSON'S WEIGHTS

PWFMWGT    10     FAMILY WEIGHT                               583 - 592
                  (4 IMPLIED DECIMALS)
                  ONLY USED FOR TALLYING FAMILY CHARACTERISTICS.

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:     PRPERTYP = 1-3


PWLGWGT    10     LONGITUDINAL WEIGHT                       593 - 602
                  (4 IMPLIED DECIMALS)
                  ONLY FOUND ON ADULT RECORDS MATCHED FROM MONTH TO MONTH.
                  (USED FOR GROSS FLOWS ANALYSIS)

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:     PRPERTYP = 2

PWORWGT    10     OUTGOING ROTATION WEIGHT                           603 - 612
                  (4 IMPLIED DECIMALS)
                  USED FOR TALLYING INFORMATION COLLECTED ONLY IN
                  OUTGOING ROTATIONS (i.e., EARNINGS, 2nd JOB I & O,
                  DETAILED NILF)

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:     PRPERTYP = 2

PWSSWGT    10     FINAL WEIGHT                                     613 - 622
                  (4 IMPLIED DECIMAL PLACES)
                  USED FOR MOST TABULATIONS, CONTROLLED TO
                  INDEPENDENT ESTIMATES FOR 1) STATES; 2) ORIGIN, SEX,
                  AND AGE; AND 3) AGE, RACE, AND SEX.

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:     PRPERTYP = 1-3

                                       6-74
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                                  LOCATION


PWVETWGT   10     VETERANS WEIGHT                             623 - 632
                  (4 IMPLIED DECIMALS)
                  USED FOR TALLYING VETERAN'S DATA ONLY, CONTROLLED TO
                  ESTIMATES OF VETERANS SUPPLIED BY VA.

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:            PRPERTYP = 2

PRCHLD     2      PRESENCE OF OWN CHILDREN <18 YEARS                            633-634
                  OF AGE BY SELECTED AGE GROUP

                  EDITED UNIVERSE: PRFAMREL = 1 or 2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  -1   NIU (Not a parent)
                   0   No own children under 18 years of age
                   1   All own children 0- 2 years of age
                   2   All own children 3- 5 years of age
                   3   All own children 6-13 years of age
                   4   All own children 14-17 years of age
                   5   Own children 0- 2 and 3- 5 years of age (none 6-17)
                   6   Own children 0- 2 and 6-13 years of age (none 3- 5 or 14-17)

                   7   Own children 0- 2 and 14-17 years of age (none 3-13)
                   8   Own children 3- 5 and 6-13 years of age (none 0- 2 or 14-17)
                   9   Own children 3- 5 and 14-17 years of age (none 0- 2 or 6-13)
                  10   Own children 6-13 and 14-17 years of age (none 0- 5)
                  11   Own children 0- 2, 3- 5, and 6-13 years of age (none 14-17)
                  12   Own children 0- 2, 3- 5, and 14-17 years of age (none 6-13)
                  13   Own children 0- 2, 6-13, and 14-17 years of age (none 3- 5)
                  14   Own children 3- 5, 6-13, and 14-17 years of age (none 0- 2)
                  15   Own children from all age groups

PRNMCHLD   2      Number of own children <18 years of age                      635-636

                  EDITED UNIVERSE: PRFAMREL = 1 or 2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  -1 NIU (Not a parent)
                  0:99 Number of own children under 18 years of age

                   ALLOCATION FLAGS
                  Unless otherwise noted, the values for all allocation
                  flags are defined as described below:

                                              6-75
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                  LOCATION


                  VALID ENTRIES

                  00     VALUE - NO CHANGE
                  01     BLANK - NO CHANGE
                  02     DON'T KNOW - NO CHANGE
                  03     REFUSED - NO CHANGE
                  10     VALUE TO VALUE
                  11     BLANK TO VALUE
                  12     DON'T KNOW TO VALUE
                  13     REFUSED TO VALUE
                  20     VALUE TO LONGITUDINAL VALUE
                  21     BLANK TO LONGITUDINAL VALUE
                  22     DON'T KNOW TO LONGITUDINAL VALUE
                  23     REFUSED TO LONGITUDINAL VALUE
                  30     VALUE TO ALLOCATED VALUE LONG.
                  31     BLANK TO ALLOCATED VALUE LONG.
                  32     DON'T KNOW TO ALLOCATED VALUE LONG.
                  33     REFUSED TO ALLOCATED VALUE LONG.
                  40     VALUE TO ALLOCATED VALUE
                  41     BLANK TO ALLOCATED VALUE
                  42     DON'T KNOW TO ALLOCATED VALUE
                  43     REFUSED TO ALLOCATED VALUE
                  50     VALUE TO BLANK
                  52     DON'T KNOW TO BLANK
                  53     REFUSED TO BLANK

PXPDEMP1   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                              637-638

PRWERNAL   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                              639 - 640

                  WEEKLY EARNINGS RECODE (PRERNWA)
                  ALLOCATION FLAG

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:   PRERELG = 1

                  00   NO ALLOCATION
                  01   ONE OR MORE COMPONENTS OF THE
                        RECODE ARE ALLOCATED

PRHERNAL   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                              641 - 642

                  HOURLY EARNINGS RECODE (PRERNHLY)
                  ALLOCATION FLAG

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:   PRERNHRY = 1

                                     6-76
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                             LOCATION


                  00   NO ALLOCATION
                  01   ONE OR MORE COMPONENT OF THE
                        RECODE ARE ALLOCATED

HXTENURE   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                     643 - 644
                  See HETENURE note.

HXHOUSUT   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                     645 - 646

HXTELHHD   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                     647 - 648

HXTELAVL   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                     649 - 650

HXPHONEO   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                     651 - 652

PXINUSYR   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                     653 - 654

PXRRP      2      ALLOCATION FLAG                     655 - 656

PXPARENT   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                     657 – 658

PXAGE      2      ALLOCATION FLAG                     659 - 660

PXMARITL   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                     661 - 662

PXSPOUSE   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                     663 - 664

PXSEX      2      ALLOCATION FLAG                     665 - 666

PXAFWHN1   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                     667 - 668

PXAFNOW    2      ALLOCATION FLAG                     669 - 670

PXEDUCA    2      ALLOCATION FLAG                     671 - 672

PXRACE1    2      ALLOCATION FLAG                     673 - 674

PXNATVTY   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                     675 - 676

PXMNTVTY   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                     677 - 678

PXFNTVTY   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                     679 - 680

PXNMEMP1   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                     681 - 682

PXHSPNON   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                     683 - 684
                                       6-77
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                  LOCATION



PXMLR      2      ALLOCATION FLAG          685 - 686

PXRET1     2      ALLOCATION FLAG          687 - 688

PXABSRSN   2      ALLOCATION FLAG          689 - 690

PXABSPDO   2      ALLOCATION FLAG          691 - 692

PXMJOT     2      ALLOCATION FLAG          693 - 694

PXMJNUM    2      ALLOCATION FLAG          695 - 696

PXHRUSL1   2      ALLOCATION FLAG          697 - 698

PXHRUSL2   2      ALLOCATION FLAG          699 - 700

PXHRFTPT   2      ALLOCATION FLAG          701 - 702

PXHRUSLT   2      ALLOCATION FLAG          703 - 704

PXHRWANT   2      ALLOCATION FLAG          705 - 706

PXHRRSN1   2      ALLOCATION FLAG          707 - 708

PXHRRSN2   2      ALLOCATION FLAG          709 – 710

PXHRACT1   2      ALLOCATION FLAG          711 - 712

PXHRACT2   2      ALLOCATION FLAG          713 - 714

PXHRACTT   2      ALLOCATION FLAG          715 - 716

PXHRRSN3   2      ALLOCATION FLAG          717 - 718

PXHRAVL    2      ALLOCATION FLAG          719 - 720

PXLAYAVL   2      ALLOCATION FLAG          721 - 722

PXLAYLK    2      ALLOCATION FLAG          723 - 724

PXLAYDUR   2      ALLOCATION FLAG          725 - 726

PXLAYFTO   2      ALLOCATION FLAG          727 - 728

PXLKM1     2      ALLOCATION FLAG          729 - 730
                                    6-78
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                  LOCATION



PXLKAVL    2      ALLOCATION FLAG          731 - 732

PXLKLL1O   2      ALLOCATION FLAG          733 - 734

PXLKLL2O   2      ALLOCATION FLAG          735 - 736

PXLKLWO    2      ALLOCATION FLAG          737 - 738

PXLKDUR    2      ALLOCATION FLAG          739 - 740

PXLKFTO    2      ALLOCATION FLAG          741 - 742

PXDWWNTO   2      ALLOCATION FLAG          743 - 744

PXDWRSN    2      ALLOCATION FLAG          745 - 746

PXDWLKO    2      ALLOCATION FLAG          747 - 748

PXDWWK     2      ALLOCATION FLAG          749 - 750

PXDW4WK    2      ALLOCATION FLAG          751 - 752

PXDWLKWK   2      ALLOCATION FLAG          753 - 754

PXDWAVL    2      ALLOCATION FLAG          755 - 756

PXDWAVR    2      ALLOCATION FLAG          757 - 758

PXJHWKO    2      ALLOCATION FLAG          759 - 760

PXJHRSN    2      ALLOCATION FLAG          761 - 762

PXJHWANT   2      ALLOCATION FLAG          763 - 764

PXIO1COW   2      ALLOCATION FLAG          765 - 766

PXIO1ICD   2      ALLOCATION FLAG          767 - 768

PXIO1OCD   2      ALLOCATION FLAG          769 - 770

PXIO2COW   2      ALLOCATION FLAG          771 - 772

PXIO2ICD   2      ALLOCATION FLAG          773 - 774

PXIO2OCD   2      ALLOCATION FLAG          775 - 776
                                    6-79
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                          LOCATION



PXERNUOT   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                                  777 - 778

PXERNPER   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                                  779 - 780

PXERNH1O   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                                  781 - 782

PXERNHRO   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                                  783 - 784

PXERN      2      ALLOCATION FLAG                                  785 - 786

PXPDEMP2   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                                  787 - 788

PXNMEMP2   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                                  789 - 790

PXERNWKP   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                                  791 - 792

PXERNRT    2      ALLOCATION FLAG                                  793 - 794

PXERNHRY   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                                  795 – 796

PXERNH2    2      ALLOCATION FLAG                                  797 - 798

PXERNLAB   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                                  799 - 800

PXERNCOV   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                                  801 - 802

PXNLFJH    2      ALLOCATION FLAG                                  803 - 804

PXNLFRET   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                                  805 - 806

PXNLFACT   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                                  807 - 808

PXSCHENR   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                                  809 - 810

PXSCHFT    2      ALLOCATION FLAG                                  811 - 812

PXSCHLVL   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                                  813 - 814

QSTNUM     5      Unique household identifier. Valid only within   815 - 819
                  any specific month.

OCCURNUM   2      Unique person identifier. Valid only within      820 - 821
                  any specific month.

PEDIPGED   2      How did...get...'s high school diploma?          822 - 823
                                            6-80
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                             LOCATION



                  EDITED UNIVERSE = PEEDUCA = 39

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   Graduation from high school
                  2   GED or other equivalent

PEHGCOMP   2      What was the highest grade of regular               824 - 825
                  school...completed before receiving...'s
                  GED?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE = PEDIPGED = 2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   Less than 1st grade
                  2   1st, 2nd, 3rd, or 4th grade
                  3   5th or 6th grade
                  4   7th or 8th grade
                  5   9th grade
                  6   10th grade
                  7   11th grade
                  8   12th grade (no diploma)

PECYC      2      How many years of college credit has...completed?        826 - 827

                  EDITED UNIVERSE: PEEDUCA =40-42

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   Less than 1 year (includes 0 years completed)
                  2   The first or Freshman year
                  3   The second or Sophomore year
                  4   The third or Junior year
                  5   Four or more years

PADDING    6                                                               828 - 833

PXDIPGED   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                                          834 - 835

PXHGCOMP   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                                          836 - 837

PXCYC      2      ALLOCATION FLAG                                          838 - 839

FILLER     6                                                               840 - 845
                                             6-81
NAME              SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                            LOCATION



PWCMPWGT          10     Composited Final Weight. Used to create                846 - 855
                         BLS's published labor force statistics (4 implied
                         decimal places)

                         EDITED UNIVERSE:                  PRPERTYP = 2 AND
                                                           PRTAGE = 16+

           SEE THE INDUSTRY AND OCCUPATION APPENDIX FOR CODE DESCRIPTIONS

PEIO1ICD          4      INDUSTRY CODE FOR PRIMARY JOB                          856 - 859

                         EDITED UNIVERSE:          (PEMLR = 1-3)
                                                    OR (PEMLR = 4 AND PELKLWO = 1-2)
                                                    OR (PEMLR = 5 AND (PENLFJH = 1 OR
                                                    PEJHWKO = 1))
                                                    OR (PEMLR = 6 AND PENLFJH = 1)
                                                    OR (PEMLR = 7 AND PEJHWKO=1)

                         VALID ENTRIES

                         0        MIN VALUE
                         9999     MAX VALUE

PTIO1OCD          4      OCCUPATION CODE FOR PRIMARY JOB.                       860 - 863

                         EDITED UNIVERSE:           (PEMLR = 1-3)
                                                    OR (PEMLR = 4 AND PELKLWO = 1-2)
                                                    OR (PEMLR = 5 AND (PENLFJH = 1 OR
                                                    PEJHWKO = 1))
                                                    OR (PEMLR = 6 AND PENLFJH = 1)
                                                    OR (PEMLR = 7 AND PEJHWKO = 1)

                         VALID ENTRIES

                         0        MIN VALUE
                         9999     MAX VALUE

PEIO2ICD      4          INDUSTRY CODE FOR SECOND JOB.                          864 - 867

                         EDITED UNIVERSE:           PEMJOT = 1 AND HRMIS = 4 OR 8

                         VALID ENTRIES

                         0        MIN VALUE
                         9999     MAX VALUE
                                                    6-82
NAME           SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                       LOCATION



PTIO2OCD       4      OCCUPATION CODE FOR SECOND JOB.                    868 - 871

                      EDITED UNIVERSE:      PEMJOT = 1 AND HRMIS = 4 OR 8

                      VALID ENTRIES

                      0         MIN VALUE
                      9999      MAX VALUE

PRIMIND1   2          INTERMEDIATE INDUSTRY RECODE (JOB 1)              872 - 873

                      EDITED UNIVERSE: PRIOELG = 1

                      VALID ENTRIES

                      1      AGRICULTURE, FORESTRY, FISHING, and HUNTING
                      2      MINING
                      3      CONSTRUCTION
                      4      MANUFACTURING - DURABLE GOODS
                      5      MANUFACTURING - NON-DURABLE GOODS
                      6      WHOLESALE TRADE
                      7      RETAIL TRADE
                      8      TRANSPORTATION AND WAREHOUSING
                      9      UTILITIES
                      10     INFORMATION
                      11     FINANCE AND INSURANCE
                      12     REAL ESTATE AND RENTAL AND LEASING
                      13     PROFESSIONAL SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL SERVICES
                      14     MANAGEMENT, ADMINISTRATIVE AND WASTE
                             MANAGEMENT SERVICES
                      15     EDUCATIONAL SERVICES
                      16     HEALTH CARE AND SOCIAL ASSISTANCE SERVICES
                      17     ARTS, ENTERTAINMENT, AND RECREATION
                      18     ACCOMMODATION AND FOOD SERVICES
                      19     PRIVATE HOUSEHOLDS
                      20     OTHER SERVICES, EXCEPT PRIVATE HOUSEHOLDS
                      21     PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
                      22     ARMED FORCES

PRIMIND2   2          INTERMEDIATE INDUSTRY RECODE (JOB 2)              874 - 875

                      EDITED UNIVERSE: PRIOELG = 1 AND PEMJOT = 1 AND HRMIS = 4 OR 8

                      VALID ENTRIES

                                            6-83
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                    LOCATION


                  1     AGRICULTURE, FORESTRY, FISHING, and HUNTING
                  2     MINING
                  3     CONSTRUCTION
                  4     MANUFACTURING - DURABLE GOODS
                  5     MANUFACTURING - NON-DURABLE GOODS
                  6    WHOLESALE TRADE
                  7    RETAIL TRADE
                  8    TRANSPORTATION AND WAREHOUSING
                  9    UTILITIES
                  10   INFORMATION
                  11   FINANCE AND INSURANCE
                  12   REAL ESTATE AND RENTAL AND LEASING
                  13   PROFESSIONAL, SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL SERVICES
                  14   MANAGEMENT, ADMINISTRATIVE AND WASTE
                        MANAGEMENT SERVICES
                  15   EDUCATIONAL SERVICES
                  16   HEALTH CARE AND SOCIAL ASSISTANCE SERVICES
                  17   ARTS, ENTERTAINMENT, AND RECREATION
                  18   ACCOMMODATION AND FOOD SERVICES
                  19   PRIVATE HOUSEHOLDS
                  20   OTHER SERVICES, EXCEPT PRIVATE HOUSEHOLDS
                  21   PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
                  22   ARMED FORCES

PEAFWHN1   2      WHEN DID YOU SERVE?                            876 - 877

                  EDITED UNIVERSE:     PEAFEVER = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1     SEPTEMBER 2001 OR LATER
                  2     AUGUST 1990 TO AUGUST 2001
                  3     MAY 1975 TO JULY 1990
                  4     VIETNAM ERA (AUGUST 1964 TO APRIL 1975)
                  5     FEBRUARY 1955 TO JULY 1964
                  6     KOREAN WAR (JULY 1950 TO JANUARY 1955)
                  7    JANUARY 1947 TO JUNE 1950
                  8    WORLD WAR II (DECEMBER 1941 TO DECEMBER 1946)
                  9    NOVEMBER 1941 OR EARLIER

PEAFWHN2   2      WHEN DID YOU SERVE?                        878 - 879

                  EDITED UNIVERSE: PEAFEVER = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES
                                      6-84
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                LOCATION



                  1    SEPTEMBER 2001 OR LATER
                  2    AUGUST 1990 TO AUGUST 2001
                  3    MAY 1975 TO JULY 1990
                  4    VIETNAM ERA (AUGUST 1964 TO APRIL 1975)
                  5    FEBRUARY 1955 TO JULY 1964
                  6    KOREAN WAR (JULY 1950 TO JANUARY 1955)
                  7   JANUARY 1947 TO JUNE 1950
                  8   WORLD WAR II (DECEMBER 1941 TO DECEMBER 1946)
                  9   NOVEMBER 1941 OR EARLIER

PEAFWHN3   2      WHEN DID YOU SERVE?                    880 - 881

                  EDITED UNIVERSE: PEAFEVER = 1


                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    SEPTEMBER 2001 OR LATER
                  2    AUGUST 1990 TO AUGUST 2001
                  3    MAY 1975 TO JULY 1990
                  4    VIETNAM ERA (AUGUST 1964 TO APRIL 1975)
                  5    FEBRUARY 1955 TO JULY 1964
                  6    KOREAN WAR (JULY 1950 TO JANUARY 1955)
                  7   JANUARY 1947 TO JUNE 1950
                  8   WORLD WAR II (DECEMBER 1941 TO DECEMBER 1946)
                  9   NOVEMBER 1941 OR EARLIER

PEAFWHN4   2      WHEN DID YOU SERVE?                        882 - 883

                  EDITED UNIVERSE: PEAFEVER = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    SEPTEMBER 2001 OR LATER
                  2    AUGUST 1990 TO AUGUST 2001
                  3    MAY 1975 TO JULY 1990
                  4    VIETNAM ERA (AUGUST 1964 TO APRIL 1975)
                  5    FEBRUARY 1955 TO JULY 1964
                  6    KOREAN WAR (JULY 1950 TO JANUARY 1955)
                  7   JANUARY 1947 TO JUNE 1950
                  8   WORLD WAR II (DECEMBER 1941 TO DECEMBER 1946)
                                    6-85
NAME        SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                   LOCATION


                   9    NOVEMBER 1941 OR EARLIER

PXAFEVER    2      ALLOCATION FLAG                                  884 - 885

PEPAR2      2      LINE NUMBER OF FIRST PARENT (ALWAYS THE          886 - 887
                   FATHER, IF PRESENT. WILL BE A FEMALE IF THE
                   PARENTS ARE SAME SEX.)

                   EDITED UNIVERSE:   ALL

                   VALID ENTRIES

                   -1   NO PEPAR2
                   01   MIN VALUE
                   16   MAX VALUE


PEPAR1      2      LINE NUMBER OF SECOND PARENT (ALWAYS THE         888 - 889
                   MOTHER, IF PRESENT. WILL BE A MALE IF THE
                   PARENTS ARE SAME SEX.)

                   EDITED UNIVERSE: ALL

                   VALID ENTRIES

                   -1 NO PEPAR1
                   01 MIN VALUE
                   16 MAX VALUE

PEPAR2TYP   2      TYPE OF PEPAR2                                   890 -891

                   EDITED UNVERSE: ALL

                   -1   NO PEPAR1 PRESENT
                   01   BIOLOGICAL
                   02   STEP
                   03   ADOPTED

PEPAR1TYP   2      TYPE OF PEPAR1                                   892 - 893

                   EDITED UNVERSE: ALL

                   -1   NO PEPAR2 PRESENT
                                      6-86
NAME        SIZE   DESCRIPTION                         LOCATION


                   01 BIOLOGICAL
                   02 STEP
                   03 ADOPTED

PECOHAB     2      LINE NUMBER OF COHABITING PARTNER   894 - 895

                   EDITED UNIVERSE: ALL

                   VALID ENTRIES

                   -1 NO PARTNER PRESENT
                   01 MIN VALUE
                   16 MAX VALUE

PXPAR2      2      ALLOCATION FLAG                     896 - 897

PXPAR1      2      ALLOCATION FLAG                     898 - 899

PXPAR2TYP   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                     900 - 901

PXPAR1TYP   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                     902 - 903

PXCOHAB     2      ALLOCATION FLAG                     904 – 905

PEDISEAR    2      IS…DEAF OR DOES…HAVE SERIOUS        906 - 907
                   DIFFICULTY HEARING?

                   EDITED UNIVERSE: PRPERTYP = 2

                   VALID ENTRIES

                   1   Yes
                   2   No

PEDISEYE    2      IS…BLIND OR DOES…HAVE SERIOUS       908 - 909
                   DIFFICULTY SEEING EVEN WHEN
                   WEARING GLASSES?

                   EDITED UNIVERSE: PRPERTYP = 2

                   VALID ENTRIES

                                     6-87
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                               LOCATION


                  1   Yes
                  2   No

PEDISREM   2      BECAUSE OF A PHYSICAL, MENTAL, OR         910 - 911
                  EMOTIONAL CONDITION, DOES…HAVE
                  SERIOUS DIFFICULTY CONCENTRATING,
                  REMEMBERING, OR MAKING DECISIONS?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE: PRPERTYP = 2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   Yes
                  2   No

PEDISPHY   2      DOES…HAVE SERIOUS DIFFICULTY              912 - 913
                  WALKING OR CLIMBING STAIRS?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE: PRPERTYP = 2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   Yes
                  2   No

PEDISDRS   2      DOES … HAVE DIFFICULTY                    914 - 915
                  DRESSING OR BATHING?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE: PRPERTYP = 2

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   Yes
                  2   No

PEDISOUT   2      BECAUSE OF A PHYSICAL, MENTAL, OR         916 - 917
                  EMOTIONAL CONDITION DOES…HAVE
                  DIFFICULTY DOING ERRANDS ALONE SUCH AS
                  VISITING A DOCTOR'S OFFICE OR SHOPPING?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE: PRPERTYP = 2

                                   6-88
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                         LOCATION


                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   Yes
                  2   No

PRDISFLG   2      DOES THIS PERSON HAVE ANY OF        918 - 919
                  THESE DISABILITY CONDITIONS?

                  EDITED UNIVERSE: PEDISEAR OR
                  PEDISEYE OR PEDISREM, PEDISPHY OR
                  PEDISDRS OR PEDISOUT = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES:

                  1   Yes
                  2   No

PXDISEAR   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                     920 - 921
PXDISEYE   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                     922 – 923

PXDISREM   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                     924 - 925

PXDISPHY   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                     926 - 927

PXDISDRS   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                     928 - 929

PXDISOUT   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                     930 - 931

HXFAMINC   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                     932 - 933

PRDASIAN   2      DETAILED ASIAN RACE RECODE          934 – 935

                  EDITED UNIVERSE: PTDTRACE = 4

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1 = Asian Indian
                  2 = Chinese
                  3 = Filipino
                  4 = Japanese
                  5 = Korean
                  6 = Vietnamese
                                     6-89
NAME       SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                        LOCATION


                  7 = Other

PEPDEMP1   2      DOES THIS PERSON USUALLY HAVE ANY                  936 - 937
                  PAID EMPLOYEES?

                  See location 637-638 for the allocation flag.

                  EDITED UNIVERSE: HRMIS = 3 or 4 and
                  PEIO1COW = 6 or 7

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1    YES
                  2    NO

PTNMEMP1   2      EXCLUDING ALL OWNERS, HOW MANY                     938-939
                  PAID EMPLOYEES DOES THIS PERSON
                  USUALLY HAVE?
                  See location 681-682 for the allocation flag.
                  EDITED UNIVERSE: PEPDEMP1 = 1

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  01-74     Number of employees
                  75        75 or more employees
                  Note that this item is topcoded at 75 employees.

PEPDEMP2   2      DOES THIS PERSON USUALLY HAVE ANY                  940 - 941
                  PAID EMPLOYEES?

                  See location 787-788 for the allocation flag.

                  EDITED UNIVERSE: HRMIS = 3 or 4 and
                  PEIO1COW = 6 or 7

                  VALID ENTRIES

                  1   YES
                  2   NO

PTNMEMP2   2      EXCLUDING ALL OWNERS, HOW MANY                     942 - 943
                  PAID EMPLOYEES DOES THIS PERSON
                                           6-90
NAME      SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                        LOCATION


                 USUALLY HAVE?

                 See location 789-790 for the allocation flag.

                 EDITED UNIVERSE: PEPDEMP1 = 1

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 01-09     Number of employees
                 10        10 or more employees
                 Note that this item is topcoded at 10 employees.

PECERT1   2      DOES … HAVE A CURRENTLY                                 944-945
                 ACTIVE PROFESSIONAL CERTIFICATION
                 OR A STATE OR INDUSTRY LICENSE?
                 DO NOT INCLUDE BUSINESS LICENSES,
                 SUCH AS A LIQUOR LICENSE OR
                 VENDING LICENSE.

                 EDITED UNIVERSE: PRPERTYP = 2

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1      Yes
                 2      No

PECERT2   2      WERE ANY OF …’S CERTIFICATIONS                          946-947
                 OR LICENSES ISSUED BY THE
                 FEDERAL, STATE, OR LOCAL
                 GOVERNMENT?

                 EDITED UNIVERSE: PECERT1 = 1

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1      Yes
                 2      No

PECERT3   2      EARLIER YOU TOLD ME THAT YOU HAD                        948-949
                 A CURRENTLY ACTIVE PROFESSIONAL
                 CERTIFICATION OR LICENSE. IS YOUR
                 CERTIFICATION OR LICENSE REQUIRED
                                          6-91
NAME      SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                    LOCATION


                 FOR YOUR …

                         a) JOB?
                         b) MAIN JOB?
                         c) JOB FROM WHICH YOU ARE OF LAYOFF?
                         d) JOB AT WHICH YOU LAST WORKED?

                 EDITED UNIVERSE: PECERT2 = 1

                 VALID ENTRIES

                 1       Yes
                 2       No
PXCERT1   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                                950-951

PXCERT2   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                                952-953

PXCERT3   2      ALLOCATION FLAG                                954-955

FILLER    45     FILLER                                         956 - 1000

                     End of Basic CPS Portion of the Record




                                      6-92
                         ATTACHMENT 7
                   SUPPLEMENT RECORD LAYOUT
                  Current Population Survey, September 2023
                Civic Engagement and Volunteering Supplement

NAME   SIZE   DESCRIPTION                                      LOCATION
PES1   2      In the past 12 months, that is from              1001-1002
              September 2022 until today, how
              often did [you/[NAME]] talk to or
              spend time with friends and family?

              EDITED UNIVERSE:
              PRSUPINT = 1
              VALID ENTRIES:
              -3 Refused
              -2 Don't know
              -1 Not in universe
              1 Basically every day
              2 A few times a week
              3 A few times a month
              4 Once a month
              5 Less than once a month
              6 Not at all

PES2   2      [In the past 12 months,] how often did           1003-1004
               [you/[NAME] discuss political, societal,
              or local issues with friends or family?

              EDITED UNIVERSE:
              PRSUPINT = 1
              VALID ENTRIES:
              -9 No answer
              -3 Refused
              -2 Don't know
              -1 Not in universe
              1 Basically every day
              2 A few times a week
              3 A few times a month
              4 Once a month
              5 Less than once a month
              6 Not at all
PES4   2   In the past 12 months, how often did           1005-1006

           [you/[NAME]] have a conversation or spend
           time with [your/his/her] neighbors?
           EDITED UNIVERSE:
           PRSUPINT = 1
           VALID ENTRIES:
           -9 No answer
           -3 Refused
           -2 Don't know
           -1 Not in universe
           1 Basically every day
           2 A few times a week

           3 A few times a month
           4 Once a month
           5 Less than once a month

           6 Not at all
PES5   2                                                  1007-1008
           [In the past 12 months,] how often did
           [you/[NAME]] discuss political, societal, or
           local issues with [your/his/her] neighbors?
           EDITED UNIVERSE:
           PRSUPINT = 1
           VALID ENTRIES:
           -9 No answer
           -3 Refused
           -2 Don't know
           -1 Not in universe
           1 Basically every day
           2 A few times a week
           3 A few times a month
           4 Once a month
           5 Less than once a month
           6 Not at all
PES6   2   [In the past 12 months,] how often did               1009-1010
            [you/[NAME]] and [your/his/her] neighbors
           do favors for each other such as house
           sitting, watching each other’s children,
           lending tools, and other things to help each other

           EDITED UNIVERSE:
           PRSUPINT = 1
           VALID ENTRIES:
           -9 No answer
           -3 Refused
           -2 Don't know
           -1 Not in universe
           1 Basically every day
           2 A few times a week
           3 A few times a month
           4 Once a month
           5 Less than once a month
           6 Not at all

PES7   2   [In the past 12 months,] did [you/[NAME]             1011-1012
            get together with other people from
           [your/his/her] neighborhood to do
           something positive for [your/his/her]
           neighborhood or the community?

           EDITED UNIVERSE:
           PRSUPINT = 1
           VALID ENTRIES:
           -9 No answer
           -3 Refused
           -2 Don't know
           1 Yes
           2 No
PES9    2   [In the past 12 months,] how often did              1013-1014
             [you/[NAME]] post [your/his/her] views
            about political, societal, or local issues on the
            internet or social media?

            EDITED UNIVERSE:
            PRSUPINT = 1
            VALID ENTRIES:
            -9 No answer
            -3 Refusal
            -2 Do not know
            -1 Not in universe
            1 Basically every day
            2 A few times a week
            3 A few times a month
            4 Once a month
            5 Less than once a month
            6 Not at all

PES10   2   [In the past 12 months,] how often did              1015-1016
             [you/[NAME]] read, watch or listen to news
            or information about political, societal, or
            local issues?

            EDITED UNIVERSE:
            PRSUPINT = 1
            VALID ENTRIES:
            -9 No answer
            -3 Refusal
            -2 Do not know
            -1 Not in universe
            1 Basically every day
            2 A few times a week
            3 A few times a month
            4 Once a month
            5 Less than once a month
            6 Not at all
PES11   2   [In the past 12 months,] did [you/[NAME]            1017-1018
             vote in the last local elections, such as for
            mayor or school board?

            EDITED UNIVERSE:
            PRSUPINT = 1
            VALID ENTRIES:
            -9 No answer
            -3 Refusal
            -2 Do not know
            -1 Not in universe
            1 Yes
            2 No
            3 Not eligible to vote

PES12   2   [In the past 12 months,] did [you/[NAME]            1019-1020
             attend a public meeting, such as a zoning or
            school board meeting, to discuss a local
            issue?

            EDITED UNIVERSE:
            PRSUPINT = 1
            VALID ENTRIES:
            -9 No answer
            -3 Refusal
            -2 Do not know
            -1 Not in universe
            1 Yes
            2 No

PES13   2   [In the past 12 months,] did [you/[NAME]            1021-1022
            contact or visit a public official – at any level
            of government – to express [your/his/her]
            opinion?

            EDITED UNIVERSE:
            PRSUPINT = 1
            VALID ENTRIES:
            -9 No answer
            -3 Refusal
            -2 Do not know
            -1 Not in universe
            1 Yes
            2 No
PES14   2   [In the past 12 months,] Did [you/[NAME]        1023-1024
            buy or boycott products or services based
            on the political values or business practices
            of that company?

            EDITED UNIVERSE:
            PRSUPINT = 1
            VALID ENTRIES:
            -9 No answer
            -3 Refusal
            -2 Do not know
            -1 Not in universe
            1 Yes
            2 No

PES15   2   In the past 12 months, did [you/[NAME]          1025-1026
             belong to any groups, organizations, or
            associations?

            EDITED UNIVERSE:
            PRSUPINT = 1
            VALID ENTRIES:
            -9 No answer
            -3 Refusal
            -2 Do not know
            -1 Not in universe
            1 Yes
            2 No
PES15A   2   How many groups, organizations, or           1027-1028
             associations would you say [you
             have/[NAME] has] belonged to over the past
             12 months?

             EDITED UNIVERSE:
             PES15 = 1
             VALID ENTRIES:
             -9 No answer
             -3 Refusal
             -2 Do not know
             -1 Not in universe
             1 One
             2 Two
             3 Three
             4 Four
             5 Five
             6 Six
             7 Seven or more

PES16    2   In the past 12 months, did [you/[NAME]]      1029-1030
             spend any time volunteering for any
             organization or association?

             EDITED UNIVERSE:
             PRSUPINT = 1
             VALID ENTRIES:
             -9 No answer
             -3 Refusal
             -2 Do not know
             -1 Not in universe
             1 Yes
             2 No
PES16A   2   Some people don’t think of activities they do   1031-1032
             infrequently or for children’s schools or
             youth organizations as volunteer activities
             . In the past 12 months (have you/has
             she/has he) done any of these types of
             activities?

             EDITED UNIVERSE:
             PES16 = (-9,-2, 2)
             VALID ENTRIES:
             -9 No answer
             -3 Refusal
             -2 Do not know
             -1 Not in universe
             1 Yes
             2 No

PES16D   2   How often did [you/[NAME]] volunteer?           1033-1034
             EDITED UNIVERSE:
             PRSUPVOL = 1
             VALID ENTRIES:
             -9 No answer
             -3 Refusal
             -2 Do not know
             -1 Not in universe
             1 Basically every day
             2 A few times a week
             3 A few times a month
             4 Once a month
             5 Less than once a month
             6 Not at all
PTS16E   3   In the past 12 months, approximately how               1035-1037
             many hours did [you/[NAME]] volunteer?
             (Topcoded at 500)
             EDITED UNIVERSE:

             PRSUPVOL = 1
             VALID ENTRIES:
             -9 No answer

             -3 Refused
             -2 Don't know

             -1 Not in universe

             1:500



PES16F   2   Thinking about the organization or association with    1038-1039
             which [you/NAME] most actively volunteer, which
             best describes the proportion of [your/his/her] in-
             person volunteering to online volunteering?

             EDITED UNIVERSE:
             PRSUPVOL = 1

             VALID ENTRIES:
             -9 No answer
             -3 Refused

             -2 Don't know
             -1 Not in universe
              1 All volunteering is in person

              2 Volunteering is more in-person than online

             3 Volunteering is evenly split between in-person and
             online

              4 Volunteering is more online than in-person

              5 All volunteering is online
PES17   2   [In the past 12 months,] did [you/[NAME]     1040-1041
             give money or possessions with a combined

             value of more than $25 to a political

             organization, party, or campaign?

            EDITED UNIVERSE:
            PRSUPINT = 1
            VALID ENTRIES:
            -9 No answer
            -3 Refusal
            -2 Do not know
            -1 Not in universe
            1 Yes

            2 No



PES18   2   [In the past 12 months,] did [you/[NAME]     1042-1043
            give money or possessions with a combined
            value of more than $25 to a non-political
            group or organization, such as a charity,
            school, or religious organization?
            EDITED UNIVERSE:

            PRSUPINT = 1
            VALID ENTRIES:
            -9 No answer
            -3 Refusal
            -2 Do not know
            -1 Not in universe
            1 Yes
            2 No
PRSUPINT    2   Supplement Interview Status Recode   1044-1045
                EDITED UNIVERSE:
                PRPERTYP = (1,2) AND PRTAGE =16+
                VALID ENTRIES:
                -1 Not in universe
                1 Interview
                2 Non-interview

 PRSUPVOL   2   Volunteer status recode              1046-1047
                EDITED UNIVERSE:
                PRSUPINT = 1
                VALID ENTRIES:
                -1 Not in universe
                1 Volunteer
                2 Not a volunteer
 PRSELF     2   Self response recode                 1048-1049
                EDITED UNIVERSE:
                PRSUPINT = 1
                VALID ENTRIES:
                -1 Not in universe
                1 Self response
                2 Proxy response
PWNRWGT    10   Nonresponse supplement Weight                               1050-1059

                EDITED UNIVERSE:

                All persons



PEELGFLG   2    Random identification self or proxy eligibility flag        1060-1061

                EDITED UNIVERSE:

                All persons

                VALID ENTRIES:

                -9 No Response
                -3 Refused
                -2 Don’t Know
                -1 Not in Universe
                1 Selected for Interview
                4 Not Selected for Interview




PESWP1a    2    Now I'm going to read you a list of statements that might   1062-1063
                or might not describe your main job. Please tell me
                whether you [strongly agree, agree, disagree, or strongly
                disagree] with each of these statements.

                I am proud to be working for my employer.
                EDITED UNIVERSE:

                Self-respondent employed persons

                VALID ENTRIES:

                -9 No Response
                -3 Refused
                -2 Don’t Know
                (1) Strongly agree
                (2) Agree
                (3) Disagree
                (4) Strongly disagree
PESWP1b   2   Now I'm going to read you a list of statements that might   1064-1065
              or might not describe your main job. Please tell me
              whether you [strongly agree, agree, disagree, or strongly
              disagree] with each of these statements.

              My workplace contributes to the community.
              EDITED UNIVERSE:

              Self-respondent employed persons

              VALID ENTRIES:

              -9 No Response
              -3 Refused
              -2 Don’t Know
              (1) Strongly agree
              (2) Agree
              (3) Disagree
              (4) Strongly disagree


PESWP1c   2   Now I'm going to read you a list of statements that might   1066-1067
              or might not describe your main job. Please tell me
              whether you [strongly agree, agree, disagree, or strongly
              disagree] with each of these statements.

              My main satisfaction in life comes from work.
              EDITED UNIVERSE:

              Self-respondent employed persons

              VALID ENTRIES:

              -9 No Response
              -3 Refused
              -2 Don’t Know
              (1) Strongly agree
              (2) Agree
              (3) Disagree
              (4) Strongly disagree
PESWP1d   2   Now I'm going to read you a list of statements that might   1068-1069
              or might not describe your main job. Please tell me
              whether you [strongly agree, agree, disagree, or strongly
              disagree] with each of these statements.

              I contribute to the community through my work.
              EDITED UNIVERSE:

              Self-respondent employed persons

              VALID ENTRIES:

              -9 No Response
              -3 Refused
              -2 Don’t Know
              (1) Strongly agree
              (2) Agree
              (3) Disagree
              (4) Strongly disagree



PESWP2    2   In the past 12 months, has your workplace or employer       1070-1071
              asked or encouraged employees to volunteer or contribute
              to a specific cause, for example by participating in an
              employer-sponsored volunteering day, providing pro bono
              services, or donating to a charity?
              EDITED UNIVERSE:

              Employed persons

              VALID ENTRIES:

              -9 No Response
              -3 Refused
              -2 Don’t Know
              (1) Yes
              (2) No


PWSRWGT   2   Self-response Supplement Weight                             1072-1081
                                      ATTACHMENT 8

                            SUPPLEMENT QUESTIONNAIRE

                        Current Population Survey, September 2023
                            Civic Engagement and Volunteering
                                        Supplement


>PRESUP<
This month, we are interested in Volunteering and Civic activities, that is how people in America
interact with and relate to each other, as well as how we work together to make changes in our
communities and country.
Enter <1> to Continue


NXTPR

I (also) need to talk with [fill name/READ LIST OF NEEDED PERSONS]. Is he/she at home
now/Are either of them at home now/Are any of them at home now)?

CALLBACK #: [fill number]

CTRL-R RESPONDENT REFUSED FOR SOMEONE ELSE

IF THE PERSON YOU NEED IS NOT AVAILABLE, AND THIS IS THE INITIAL CALL, PRESS
F10 TO EXIT.

IF THIS IS CALL BACK #1, YOU CANNOT SCHEDULE ANOTHER CALL BACK.

WHEN YOU HAVE FINISHED EVERYONE, THEN ENTER 0 (ZERO) TO EXIT.

0      No More
1      Person 1
2      Person 2
.
.
16    Person 15




                                              8-1
(ONLY TAKE A PROXY IF THIS IS THE 1ST CALLBACK, THE PERSON WILL NOT
RETURN BEFORE CLOSEOUT OR THE HOUSEHOLD IS GETTING IRRITATED.)

>NXTPR3<          Is this a Self or Proxy response?

                  <1>     Self
                  <2>     Proxy

                  ===>_


NXTPR5
Enter Line Number of current respondent.

0. No more
1. Person 1
2. Person 2
:
:
16... Person 15


> SWP1a <
Now I'm going to read you a list of statements that might or might not describe your main job.
Please tell me whether you [strongly agree, agree, disagree, or strongly disagree] with each of
these statements.
I am proud to be working for my employer.

<1>    Strongly agree                      (go to SWP1b)
<2>    Agree                               (go to SWP1b)
<3>    Disagree                            (go to SWP1b)
<4>    Strongly disagree                   (go to SWP1b)

> SWP1b <
Now I'm going to read you a list of statements that might or might not describe your main job.
Please tell me whether you [strongly agree, agree, disagree, or strongly disagree] with each of
these statements.
My workplace contributes to the community.

<1>    Strongly agree                      (go to SWP1c)
<2>    Agree                               (go to SWP1c)
<3>    Disagree                            (go to SWP1c)
<4>    Strongly disagree                   (go to SWP1c)

                                                 8-2
> SWP1c <
Now I'm going to read you a list of statements that might or might not describe your main job.
Please tell me whether you [strongly agree, agree, disagree, or strongly disagree] with each of
these statements.

My main satisfaction in life comes from work.

<1>    Strongly agree                  (go to SWP1d)
<2>    Agree                           (go to SWP1d)
<3>    Disagree                        (go to SWP1d)
<4>    Strongly disagree               (go to SWP1d)

> SWP1d <
Now I'm going to read you a list of statements that might or might not describe your main job.
Please tell me whether you [strongly agree, agree, disagree, or strongly disagree] with each of
these statements.
I contribute to the community through my work.

<1>    Strongly agree                   (go to SWP2)
<2>    Agree                            (go to SWP2)
<3>    Disagree                         (go to SWP2)
<4>    Strongly disagree                (go to SWP2)

> SWP2 <
In the past 12 months, has your workplace or employer asked or encouraged employees to
volunteer or contribute to a specific cause, for example by participating in an employer-sponsored
volunteering day, providing pro bono services, or donating to a charity?

<1>      Yes                             (go to S1)
<2>      No                              (go to S1)
<DK>     Do not know                     (go to S1)
<RF>     Refusal                         (go to S1)

>S1<
In the past 12 months, that is from September 2022 until today, how often did [you/[NAME]]
talk to or spend time with friends and family?

<1>     Basically every day    (Go to S2)
<2>     A few times a week     (Go to S2)
<3>     A few times a month    (Go to S2)
<4>     Once a month           (Go to S2)
<5>     Less than once a month (Go to S2)
<6>     Not at all             (Go to S2)
<DK>    Don’t Know             (Go to S2)
<RF>    Refused                (Go to S2)
                                              8-3
>S2<
[In the past 12 months,] how often did [you/[NAME]] discuss political, societal, or local issues
with friends or family?

<1>     Basically every day    (Go to S3)
<2>     A few times a week     (Go to S3)
<3>     A few times a month    (Go to S3)
<4>     Once a month           (Go to S3)
<5>     Less than once a month (Go to S3)
<6>     Not at all             (Go to S3)
<DK>    Don’t Know             (Go to S3)
<RF>    Refused                (Go to S3)


>S4<
[In the past 12 months,] how often did [you/[NAME]] have a conversation or spend time with
[your/his/her] neighbors?

<1>     Basically every day    (Go to S5)
<2>     A few times a week     (Go to S5)
<3>     A few times a month    (Go to S5)
<4>     Once a month           (Go to S5)
<5>     Less than once a month (Go to S5)
<6>     Not at all             (Go to S5)
<DK>    Don’t Know             (Go to S5)
<RF>    Refused                (Go to S5)




                                              8-4
>S5<
[In the past 12 months,] how often did [you/[NAME]] discuss political, societal, or local issues
with [your/his/her] neighbors?

<1>     Basically every day    (Go to S6)
<2>     A few times a week     (Go to S6)
<3>     A few times a month    (Go to S6)
<4>     Once a month           (Go to S6)
<5>     Less than once a month (Go to S6)
<6>     Not at all             (Go to S6)
<DK>    Don’t Know             (Go to S6)
<RF>    Refused                (Go to S6)


>S6<
[In the past 12 months,] how often did [you/[NAME]] and [your/his/her] neighbors do favors for
each other such as house sitting, watching each other’s children, lending tools, and other things
to help each other.

<1>     Basically every day    (Go to S7)
<2>     A few times a week     (Go to S7)
<3>     A few times a month    (Go to S7)
<4>     Once a month           (Go to S7)
<5>     Less than once a month (Go to S7)
<6>     Not at all             (Go to S7)
<DK>    Don’t Know             (Go to S7)
<RF>    Refused                (Go to S7)


>S7<
[In the past 12 months,] did [you/[NAME]] get together with other people from [your/his/her]
neighborhood to do something positive for [your/his/her] neighborhood or the community.

<1>     Yes                      (Go to S9)
<2>     No                       (Go to S9)
<DK>    Don’t Know               (Go to S9)
<RF>    Refused                  (Go to S9)




                                              8-5
>S9<
[In the past 12 months,] how often did [you/[NAME]] post [your/his/her] views about political,
societal, or local issues on the internet or social media?

<1>     Basically every day    (Go to S10)
<2>     A few times a week     (Go to S10)
<3>     A few times a month    (Go to S10)
<4>     Once a month           (Go to S10)
<5>     Less than once a month (Go to S10)
<6>     Not at all             (Go to S10)
<DK>    Don’t Know             (Go to S10)
<RF>    Refused                (Go to S10)


>S10<
[In the past 12 months,] how often did [you/[NAME]] read, watch or listen to news or
information about political, societal, or local issues?

<1>     Basically every day    (Go to S11)
<2>     A few times a week     (Go to S11)
<3>     A few times a month    (Go to S11)
<4>     Once a month           (Go to S11)
<5>     Less than once a month (Go to S11)
<6>     Not at all             (Go to S11)
<DK>    Don’t Know             (Go to S11)
<RF>    Refused                (Go to S11)




                                             8-6
>S11<
[In the past 12 months,] did [you/[NAME]] vote in the last local elections, such as for mayor or
school board?

<1>     Yes                       (Go to S12)
<2>     No                        (Go to S12)
<3>     Not eligible to vote      (Go to S12)
<DK>    Don’t Know                (Go to S12)
<RF>    Refused                   (Go to S12)


>S12<
[In the past 12 months,] did [you/[NAME]] attend a public meeting, such as a zoning or school
board meeting, to discuss a local issue?

<1>     Yes                       (Go to S13)
<2>     No                        (Go to S13)
<DK>    Don’t Know                (Go to S13)
<RF>    Refused                   (Go to S13)


>S13<
[In the past 12 months,] did [you/[NAME]] contact or visit a public official - at any level of
government – to express [your/his/her] opinion?

<1>     Yes                       (Go to S14)
<2>     No                        (Go to S14)
<DK>    Don’t Know                (Go to S14)
<RF>    Refused                   (Go to S14)


>S14<
[In the past 12 months,] did [you/[NAME]] buy or boycott products or services based on the
political values or business practices of that company?

<1>     Yes                       (Go to S15)
<2>     No                        (Go to S15)
<DK>    Don’t Know                (Go to S15)
<RF>    Refused                   (Go to S15)




                                                8-7
>S15<
[In the past 12 months,] did [you/[NAME]] belong to any groups, organizations, or associations?

<1>     Yes                       (Go to S15a)
<2>     No                        (Go to S16)
<DK>    Don’t Know                (Go to S16)
<RF>    Refused                   (Go to S16)


>S15a<
How many groups, organizations, or associations would you say [you have/[NAME]]
has] belonged to over the past 12 months?
              Number of groups / organizations / associations   [ Go to S16]

<DK> Don’t Know                   (Go to S16)
<RF> Refused                      (Go to S16)

>S16<
[In the past 12 months,] did [you/[NAME]] spend any time volunteering for any organization or
association?

<1>     Yes                       (Go to S16d)
<2>     No                        (Go to S16a)
<DK>    Don’t Know                (Go to S16a)
<RF>    Refused                   (Go to S17)




                                                 8-8
>S16a<
Some people don’t think of activities they do infrequently or for children’s schools or youth
organizations as volunteer activities. In the past 12 months (have you/has she/has he) done any
of these types of activities?

<1>     Yes                      (Go to S16d)
<2>     No                       (Go to S17)
<DK>    Don’t Know               (Go to S17)
<RF>    Refused                  (Go to S17)


>S16d<
How often did [you/[NAME]] volunteer?

<1>     Basically every day    (Go to S16e)
<2>     A few times a week     (Go to S16e)
<3>     A few times a month    (Go to S16e)
<4>     Once a month           (Go to S16e)
<5>     Less than once a month (Go to S16e)
<6>     Not at all             (Go to S17)
<DK>    Don’t Know             (Go to S16e)
<RF>    Refused                (Go to S16e)


>S16e<
[In the past 12 months,] approximately how many hours did [you/[NAME]] volunteer?

               Hours             (Go to S16f)
<DK> Don’t Know                  (Go to S16f)
<RF> Refused                     (Go to S16f)


>S16f<
Thinking about the organization or association with which [you/NAME] most actively volunteer,
which best describes the proportion of [your/his/her] in-person volunteering to online
volunteering?

<1>  All volunteering is in person                                    (Go to S17)
<2>  Volunteering is more in-person than online                       (Go to S17)
<3>  Volunteering is evenly split between in-person and online        (Go to S17)
<4>  Volunteering is more online than in-person                        (Go to S17)
<5>  All volunteering is online                                        (Go to S17)
<DK> Don’t Know                                                       (Go to S17)
<RF> Refused                                                          (Go to S17)

                                                8-9
>S17<
[In the past 12 months,] did [you/[NAME]] give money or possessions with a combined value of
more than $25 to a political organization, party, or campaign?

<1>     Yes                      (Go to S18)
<2>     No                       (Go to S18)
<DK>    Don’t Know               (Go to S18)
<RF>    Refused                  (Go to S18)


>S18<
[In the past 12 months,] did [you/[NAME]] give money or possessions with a combined value of
more than $25 to a non - political group or organization, such as a charity, school, or religious
organization?

<1>     Yes                      (Go to CK1)
<2>     No                       (Go to CK1)
<DK>    Don’t Know               (Go to CK1)
<RF>    Refused                  (Go to CK1)




                                               8-10
                                                ATTACHMENT 9

                                        INDUSTRY CLASSIFICATION

                       Industry Classification Codes for Detailed Industry (4 digit)
                                         (Starting January 2020)


     These categories are aggregated into 52 detailed groups and 14 major groups (see pages 10-12 of
this attachment). The codes in the right-hand column are the NAICS equivalent.

    These codes correspond to Items PEIO1ICD and PEIO2ICD, in positions 856-859 and 864-867 of
the Basic CPS record layout in all months, except the ASEC files. In the ASEC, these codes correspond
to PEIOIND and INDUSTRY, in the Person record.

Note: The Census industry codes and NAICS codes are based on the 2017 North American Industry Classification System.

2017                                                                                                    2017
CENSUS                                                                                                  NAICS
CODE                            DESCRIPTION                                                             CODE



           Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing, and Hunting

0170       Crop production                                                                          111
0180       Animal production and aquaculture                                                        112
0190       Forestry except logging                                                                  1131, 1132
0270       Logging                                                                                  1133
0280       Fishing, hunting, and trapping                                                           114
0290       Support activities for agriculture and forestry                                          115

           Mining, Quarrying, and Oil and Gas Extraction

0370       Oil and gas extraction                                                                   211
0380       Coal mining                                                                              2121
0390       Metal ore mining                                                                         2122
0470       Nonmetallic mineral mining and quarrying                                                 2123
0490       Support activities for mining                                                            213

           Utilities

0570       Electric power generation, transmission and distribution                                 2211
0580       Natural gas distribution                                                                 2212
0590       Electric and gas, and other combinations                                                 Pts. 2211, 2212
0670       Water, steam, air-conditioning, and irrigation systems                                   22131, 22133
0680       Sewage treatment facilities                                                              22132
0690       Not specified utilities                                                                  Part of 22

           Construction

                                                         9-1
2017                                                                                   2017
CENSUS                                                                                 NAICS
CODE                         DESCRIPTION                                               CODE


0770     Construction                                                             23
         (Includes the cleaning of buildings and dwellings is incidental during
         construction and immediately after construction)

         Manufacturing

1070     Animal food, grain and oilseed milling                                   3111, 3112
1080     Sugar and confectionery products                                         3113
1090     Fruit and vegetable preserving and specialty food manufacturing          3114
1170     Dairy product manufacturing                                              3115
1180     Animal slaughtering and processing                                       3116
1190     Retail bakeries                                                          311811
1270     Bakeries and tortilla manufacturing, except retail bakeries              3118 exc.
                                                                                  311811
1280     Seafood and other miscellaneous foods, n.e.c.                            3117, 3119
1290     Not specified food industries                                            Part of 311
1370     Beverage manufacturing                                                   3121
1390     Tobacco manufacturing                                                    3122
1470     Fiber, yarn, and thread mills                                            3131
1480     Fabric mills, except knitting                                            3132 exc.
                                                                                  31324
1490     Textile and fabric finishing and coating mills                           3133
1570     Carpet and rug mills                                                     31411
1590     Textile product mills, except carpets and rugs                           314 exc. 31411
1670     Knitting fabric mills, and apparel knitting mills                        31324, 3151
1691     Cut and sew, and apparel accessories and other apparel manufacturing     3152, 3159

1770     Footwear manufacturing                                                   3162
1790     Leather and hide tanning and finishing, and other leather and allied     3161, 3169
         product manufacturing
1870     Pulp, paper, and paperboard mills                                        3221
1880     Paperboard containers and boxes                                          32221
1890     Miscellaneous paper and pulp products                                    32222, 32223,
                                                                                  32229
1990     Printing and related support activities                                  3231
2070     Petroleum refining                                                       32411
2090     Miscellaneous petroleum and coal products                                32419
2170     Resin, synthetic rubber and fibers, and filaments manufacturing          3252
2180     Agricultural chemical manufacturing                                      3253
2190     Pharmaceutical and medicine manufacturing                                3254
2270     Paint, coating, and adhesive manufacturing                               3255
2280     Soap, cleaning compound, and cosmetics manufacturing                     3256
2290     Industrial and miscellaneous chemicals                                   3251, 3259
2370     Plastics product manufacturing                                           3261
2380     Tire manufacturing                                                       32621
2390     Rubber products, except tires, manufacturing                             32622, 32629




                                                            9-2
2017                                                                                         2017
CENSUS                                                                                       NAICS
CODE                         DESCRIPTION                                                     CODE


2470     Pottery, ceramics, and plumbing fixture manufacturing                            32711
2480     Clay building material and refractories manufacturing                            327120
2490     Glass and glass product manufacturing                                            3272
2570     Cement, concrete, lime, and gypsum product manufacturing                         3273, 3274
2590     Miscellaneous nonmetallic mineral product manufacturing                          3279
2670     Iron and steel mills and steel product manufacturing                             3311, 3312
2680     Aluminum production and processing                                               3313
2690     Nonferrous metal (except aluminum) production and processing                     3314
2770     Foundries                                                                        3315
2780     Metal forgings and stampings                                                     3321
2790     Cutlery and hand tool manufacturing                                              3322
2870     Structural metals, and boiler, tank, and shipping container manufacturing        3323, 3324
2880     Machine shops; turned product; screw, nut and bolt manufacturing                 3327
2890     Coating, engraving, heat treating and allied activities                          3328
2970     Ordnance                                                                         332992, 332993,
                                                                                          332994, 332996
2980     Miscellaneous fabricated metal products manufacturing                            3325, 3326,
                                                                                          3329 exc.
                                                                                          332992, 332993,
                                                                                          332994, 332996
2990     Not specified metal industries                                                   Part of 331
                                                                                          and 332
3070     Agricultural implement manufacturing                                             33311
3080     Construction, and mining and oil and gas field machinery manufacturing           33312, 33313
3095     Commercial and service industry machinery manufacturing                          3333
3170     Metalworking machinery manufacturing                                             3335
3180     Engine, turbine, and power transmission equipment manufacturing                  3336
3291     "Machinery manufacturing, n.e.c. or not specified"                               3332, 3334,
                                                                                          3339, Part of 333
3365     Computer and peripheral equipment manufacturing                                  3341
3370     Communications, audio, and video equipment manufacturing                         3342, 3343
3380     Navigational, measuring, electromedical, and control instruments manufacturing   3345
3390     Electronic component and product manufacturing, n.e.c.                           3344, 3346
3470     Household appliance manufacturing                                                3352
3490     Electric lighting and electrical equipment manufacturing, and other              3351, 3353,
         electrical component manufacturing, n.e.c.                                       3359
3570     Motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment manufacturing                         3361, 3362,
                                                                                          3363
3580     Aircraft and parts manufacturing                                                 336411, 336412,
                                                                                          336413
3590     Aerospace products and parts manufacturing                                       336414,
                                                                                          336415, 336419
3670     Railroad rolling stock manufacturing                                             3365
3680     Ship and boat building                                                           3366
3690     Other transportation equipment manufacturing                                     3369




                                                            9-3
2017                                                                                           2017
CENSUS                                                                                         NAICS
CODE                         DESCRIPTION                                                       CODE

3770     Sawmills and wood preservation                                                    3211
3780     Veneer, plywood, and engineered wood products                                     3212
3790     Prefabricated wood buildings and mobile homes manufacturing                       321991,
                                                                                           321992
3875     Miscellaneous wood products                                                       3219 exc.
                                                                                           321991, 321992
3895     Furniture and related product manufacturing                                       337
3960     Medical equipment and supplies manufacturing                                      3391
3970     Sporting and athletic goods, and doll, toy and game manufacturing                 33992, 33993
3980     Miscellaneous manufacturing, n.e.c.                                               3399 exc.
                                                                                           33992, 33993
3990     Not specified manufacturing industries                                            Part of 31, 32, 33

         Wholesale Trade

4070     Motor vehicle and motor vehicle parts and supplies merchant wholesalers           4231
4080     Furniture and home furnishing merchant wholesalers                                4232
4090     Lumber and other construction materials merchant wholesalers                      4233
4170     Professional and commercial equipment and supplies merchant wholesalers           4234
4180     Metals and minerals, except petroleum merchant wholesalers                        4235
4195     Household appliances and electrical and electronic goods merchant wholesalers     4236
4265     Hardware, and plumbing and heating equipment, and supplies merchant wholesalers   4237
4270     Machinery, equipment, and supplies merchant wholesalers                           4238
4280     Recyclable material merchant wholesalers                                          42393
4290     Miscellaneous durable goods merchant wholesalers                                  4239 exc.
                                                                                           42393

4370     Paper and paper products merchant wholesalers                                     4241
4380     Drugs, sundries, and chemical and allied products merchant wholesalers            4242, 4246
4390     Apparel, piece goods, and notions merchant wholesalers                            4243
4470     Grocery and related product merchant wholesalers                                  4244
4480     Farm product raw material merchant wholesalers                                    4245
4490     Petroleum and petroleum products merchant wholesalers                             4247
4560     Alcoholic beverages merchant wholesalers                                          4248
4570     Farm supplies merchant wholesalers                                                42491
4580     Miscellaneous nondurable goods merchant wholesalers                               4249 exc.
                                                                                           42491
4585     Wholesale electronic markets and agents and brokers                               4251
4590     Not specified wholesale trade                                                     Part of 42




                                                           9-4
2017                                                                                 2017
CENSUS                                                                               NAICS
CODE                          DESCRIPTION                                            CODE

         Retail Trade

4670     Automobile dealers                                                       4411
4680     Other motor vehicle dealers                                              4412
4690     Auto parts, accessories, and tire stores                                 4413
4770     Furniture and home furnishings stores                                    442
4780     Household appliance stores                                               443141
4795     Electronics stores                                                       443142
4870     Building material and supplies dealers                                   4441 exc.
                                                                                  44413
4880     Hardware stores                                                          44413
4890     Lawn and garden equipment and supplies stores                            4442
4971     Supermarkets and Other Grocery (except Convenience) Stores               44511
4972     Convenience Stores                                                       44512

4980     Specialty food stores                                                    4452
4990     Beer, wine, and liquor stores                                            4453
5070     Pharmacies and drug stores                                               44611
5080     Health and personal care, except drug, stores                            446 exc.44611
5090     Gasoline stations                                                        447
5170     Clothing stores                                                          4481
5180     Shoe stores                                                              44821
5190     Jewelry, luggage, and leather goods stores                               4483
5275     Sporting goods, and hobby and toy stores                                 45111, 45112
5280     Sewing, needlework, and piece goods stores                               45113
5295     Musical instrument and supplies stores                                   45114
5370     Book stores and news dealers                                             45121
5381     Department stores                                                        45221
5391     General merchandise stores, including warehouse clubs and supercenters   4523
5470     Florists                                                                 4531
5480     Office supplies and stationery stores                                    45321
5490     Used merchandise stores                                                  4533
5570     Gift, novelty, and souvenir shops                                        45322
5580     Miscellaneous retail stores                                              4539
5593     Electronic shopping and mail-order houses                                454110
5670     Vending machine operators                                                4542
5680     Fuel dealers                                                             454310
5690     Other direct selling establishments                                      45439
5790     Not specified retail trade                                               Part of 44, 45

         Transportation and Warehousing

6070     Air transportation                                                       481
6080     Rail transportation                                                      482
6090     Water transportation                                                     483
6170     Truck transportation                                                     484
6180     Bus service and urban transit                                            4851, 4852,
                                                                                   4854, 4855,
                                                                                  4859
6190     Taxi and limousine service                                               4853


                                                          9-5
2017                                                                                                 2017
CENSUS                                                                                               NAICS
CODE                           DESCRIPTION                                                           CODE

6270      Pipeline transportation                                                              486
6280      Scenic and sightseeing transportation                                                487
6290      Services incidental to transportation                                                488
6370      Postal Service                                                                       491
6380      Couriers and messengers                                                              492
6390      Warehousing and storage                                                              493

          Information

6470      Newspaper publishers                                                                 51111
6480      Periodical, book, and directory publishers                                           5111 exc.
                                                                                               51111
6490      Software publishing                                                                  5112
6570      Motion pictures and video industries                                                 5121
6590      Sound recording industries                                                           5122
6670      Broadcasting (except internet)                                                       515
6672      Internet publishing and broadcasting and web search portals                          51913
6680      Wired telecommunications carriers                                                    517311
6690      Telecommunications, except wired telecommunications carriers                         517 exc.
                                                                                               517311
6695      Data processing, hosting, and related services                                       5182
6770      Libraries and archives                                                               51912
6780      Other information services, except libraries and archives, and internet publishing   5191 exc.
          and broadcasting and web search portals                                              51912, 51913

Finance, Insurance, Real Estate, and Rental and Leasing
          Finance and Insurance

6870      Banking and related activities                                                       521, 52211,
                                                                                               52219
6880      Savings institutions, including credit unions                                        52212, 52213
6890      Nondepository credit and related activities                                          5222, 5223
6970      Securities, commodities, funds, trusts, and other financial investments              523, 525
6991      Insurance carriers                                                                   5241
6992      Agencies, brokerages, and other insurance related activities                         5242



          Real Estate and Rental and Leasing

7071      Lessors of real estate, and offices of real estate agents and brokers                5311, 5312
7072      Real estate property managers, offices of real estate appraisers, and other          5313
          activities related to real estate
7080      Automotive equipment rental and leasing                                              5321
7181      Other consumer goods rental                                                          53221, 532281,
                                                                                               532282, 532283,
                                                                                               532284, 532289,
                                                                                               5323
7190      Commercial, industrial, and other intangible assets rental and leasing               5324, 533



                                                              9-6
2017                                                                                         2017
CENSUS                                                                                       NAICS
CODE                           DESCRIPTION                                                   CODE

Professional, Scientific, Management, Administrative, and Waste management services
          Professional, Scientific, and Technical Services

7270      Legal services                                                                5411
7280      Accounting, tax preparation, bookkeeping, and payroll services                5412
7290      Architectural, engineering, and related services                              5413
7370      Specialized design services                                                   5414
7380      Computer systems design and related services                                  5415
7390      Management, scientific, and technical consulting services                     5416
7460      Scientific research and development services                                  5417
7470      Advertising, public relations, and related services                           5418
7480      Veterinary services                                                           54194
7490      Other professional, scientific, and technical services                        5419 exc.

          Management of companies and enterprises

7570      Management of companies and enterprises                                       55

          Administrative and support and waste management services

7580      Employment services                                                           5613
7590      Business support services                                                     5614
7670      Travel arrangements and reservation services                                  5615
7680      Investigation and security services                                           5616
7690      Services to buildings and dwellings                                           5617 exc.
          (except cleaning during construction and immediately after construction)      56173
7770      Landscaping services                                                          56173
7780      Other administrative and other support services                               5611, 5612,
                                                                                        5619
7790      Waste management and remediation services                                     562


Educational Services, and Health Care and Social Assistance

          Educational Services

7860      Elementary and secondary schools                                              6111
7870      Colleges, universities, and professional schools, including junior colleges   6112, 6113
7880      Business, technical, and trade schools and training                           6114, 6115
7890      Other schools and instruction, and educational support services               6116, 6117

          Health Care and Social Assistance

7970      Offices of physicians                                                         6211
7980      Offices of dentists                                                           6212
7990      Offices of chiropractors                                                      62131
8070      Offices of optometrists                                                       62132
8080      Offices of other health practitioners                                         6213 exc.
                                                                                        62131, 62132
8090      Outpatient care centers                                                       6214


                                                              9-7
2017                                                                                     2017
CENSUS                                                                                   NAICS
CODE                           DESCRIPTION                                               CODE

8170     Home health care services                                                    6216
8180     Other health care services                                                   6215, 6219
8191     General medical and surgical hospitals, and specialty                        6221, 6223
         (except psychiatric and substance abuse) hospitals
8192     Psychiatric and substance abuse hospitals                                    6222

8270     Nursing care facilities (skilled nursing facilities)                         6231
8290     Residential care facilities, except skilled nursing facilities               6232, 6233,
                                                                                      6239
8370     Individual and family services                                               6241
8380     Community food and housing, and emergency services                           6242
8390     Vocational rehabilitation services                                           6243
8470     Child day care services                                                      6244

 Arts, Entertainment, and Recreation, and Accommodation and Food Services

         Arts, Entertainment, and Recreation

8561     Performing arts companies                                                    7111
8562     Spectator sports                                                             7112
8563     Promoters of performing arts, sports, and similar events, agents             7113, 7114
         and managers for artists, athletes, entertainers, and other public figures
8564     Independent artists, writers, and performers                                 7115
8570     Museums, art galleries, historical sites, and similar institutions           712
8580     Bowling centers                                                              71395
8590     Other amusement, gambling, and recreation industries                         713 exc.
                                                                                      71395
         Accommodation and Food Service

8660     Traveler accommodation                                                       7211
8670     Recreational vehicle parks and camps, and rooming and boarding houses,       7212, 7213
         dormitories, and workers' camps
8680     Restaurants and other food services                                          722 exc. 7224
8690     Drinking places, alcoholic beverages                                         7224


         Other Services, Except Public Administration

8770     Automotive repair and maintenance                                            8111 exc.
                                                                                      811192
8780     Car washes                                                                   811192
8790     Electronic and precision equipment repair and maintenance                    8112
8870     Commercial and industrial machinery and equipment repair and maintenance     8113
8891     Personal and household goods repair and maintenance                          8114
8970     Barber shops                                                                 812111
8980     Beauty salons                                                                812112
8990     Nail salons and other personal care services                                 812113,
                                                                                      81219
9070     Dry cleaning and laundry services                                            8123
9080     Funeral homes, cemeteries, and crematories                                   8122

                                                                9-8
2017                                                                                      2017
CENSUS                                                                                    NAICS
CODE                          DESCRIPTION                                                 CODE

9090     Other personal services                                                       8129
9160     Religious organizations                                                       8131
9170     Civic, social, advocacy organizations, and grant making and giving services   8132, 8133,
                                                                                       8134
9180     Labor unions                                                                  81393
9190     Business, professional, political, and similar organizations                  8139 exc.
                                                                                       81393
9290     Private households                                                            814

         Public Administration

9370     Executive offices and legislative bodies                                      92111, 92112,
                                                                                       92114, pt. 92115
9380     Public finance activities                                                     92113
9390     Other general government and support                                          92119
9470     Justice, public order, and safety activities                                  922, pt. 92115
9480     Administration of human resource programs                                     923
9490     Administration of environmental quality and housing programs                  924, 925
9570     Administration of economic programs and space research                        926, 927
9590     National security and international affairs                                   928

         Military

9890     Military                                                                      928110




                                                             9-9
                                       Detailed Industry Recodes
                                                 (01-52)


These codes correspond to Items PRDTIND1 and PRDTIND2 in positions 472-475 of the Basic CPS
record layout in all months except ASEC. In ASEC, these codes correspond to Item
A_DTIND.



CODE                                   DESCRIPTION                   INDUSTRY CODE

1      Agriculture                                                   0170 - 0180,
                                                                     0290
2      Forestry, logging, fishing, hunting, and trapping             0190 - 0280
3      Mining                                                        0370 - 0490
4      Construction                                                  0770
5      Nonmetallic mineral products                                  2470 - 2590
6      Primary metals and fabricated metal products                  2670 - 2990
7      Machinery manufacturing                                       3070 - 3291
8      Computer and electronic products                              3365 - 3390
9      Electrical equipment, appliance manufacturing                 3470, 3490
10     Transportation equipment manufacturing                        3570 - 3690
11     Wood products                                                 3770 - 3875
12     Furniture and fixtures manufacturing                          3895
13     Miscellaneous and not specified manufacturing                 3960 - 3990
14     Food manufacturing                                            1070 - 1290
15     Beverage and tobacco products                                 1370, 1390
16     Textile, apparel, and leather manufacturing                   1470 - 1790
17     Paper and printing                                            1870 - 1990
18     Petroleum and coal products                                   2070, 2090
19     Chemical manufacturing                                        2170 - 2290
20     Plastics and rubber products                                  2370 - 2390
21     Wholesale trade                                               4070 - 4590
22     Retail trade                                                  4670 - 5790
23     Transportation and warehousing                                6070 - 6390
24     Utilities                                                     0570 - 0690
25     Publishing industries (except internet)                       6470 - 6490
26     Motion picture and sound recording industries                 6570, 6590
27     Broadcasting (except internet)                                6670
28     Internet publishing and broadcasting                          6675
29     Telecommunications                                            6680, 6690
30     Internet service providers and data processing services       6692, 6695
31     Other information services                                    6770, 6780
32     Finance                                                       6870 - 6970
33     Insurance                                                     6990
34     Real estate                                                   7070
35     Rental and leasing services                                   7080 - 7190
36     Professional and technical services                           7270 - 7490
37     Management of companies and enterprises                       7570
38     Administrative and support services                           7580 - 7780
                                                     9-10
CODE                                DESCRIPTION           INDUSTRY CODE

39     Waste management and remediation services          7790
40     Educational services                               7860 - 7890
41     Hospitals                                          8190
42     Health care services, except hospitals             7970 - 8180,
43     Social assistance                                  8370 - 8470
44     Arts, entertainment, and recreation                8560 - 8590
45     Accommodation                                      8660, 8670
46     Food services and drinking places                  8680, 8690
47     Repair and maintenance                             8770 - 8890
48     Personal and laundry services                      8970 - 9090
49     Membership associations and organizations          9160 - 9190
50     Private households                                 9290
51     Public administration                              9370 - 9590
52     Military                                           9890




                                                   9-11
                                      Major Industry Recodes
                                              (01-14)


These codes correspond to Items PRMJIND1 and PRMJIND2 located in positions 482-485 of the Basic CPS
record layout in all months except ASEC. In ASEC, these codes correspond to Item A_MJIND.

CODE                                 DESCRIPTION                                     INDUSTRY CODE

1         Agriculture, forestry, fishing, and hunting                                  0170-0290
2         Mining, Quarrying, and Oil and Gas Extraction                                0370-0490
3         Construction                                                                 0770
4         Manufacturing                                                                1070-3990
5         Wholesale and retail trade                                                   4070-5790
6         Transportation and Warehousing, and Utilities                                6070-6390,
                                                                                       0570-0690
7         Information                                                                  6470-6780
8         Finance and Insurance, and Real Estate and Rental and Leasing                6870-7190
9         Professional, Scientific, and Management, and Administrative,                7270-7790
          and Waste Management Services
10        Educational Services, and Health Care and Social Assistance                  7860-8470
11        Arts, Entertainment, and Recreation, and Accommodation and Food Services     8561-8690
12        Other Services, Except Public Administration                                 8770-9290
13        Public administration                                                        9370-9590
14        Military                                                                     9890




                                                          9-12
                                             ATTACHMENT 10

                                 OCCUPATION CLASSIFICATION

                                        (Beginning January 2020)


These categories are aggregated into 23 detailed groups and 11 major groups (see pages 10-17 and 10-
18). The codes in the right hand column are the 2018 SOC equivalent.

These codes correspond to items PTIO1OCD and PTIO2OCD in positions 860-863 and 868-871 of the
Basic CPS record layout in all months, except the ASEC files. In ASEC, these codes correspond to items
PEIOOCC and OCCUP of the Persons Record. These codes are also applicable for any other CPS
supplements that collect occupation data.

  2018
                                                                                        2018 SOC
  CENSUS                                      DESCRIPTION
                                                                                        CODE
  CODE


         Management, Business, Science, and Arts Occupations

                   Management Occupations

  0010        Chief executives                                                          11-1011
  0020        General and operations managers                                           11-1021
  0040        Advertising and promotions managers                                       11-2011
  0051        Marketing managers                                                        11-2021
  0052        Sales managers                                                            11-2022
  0060        Public relations and fundraising managers                                 11-2030
  0101        Administrative services managers                                          11-3012
  0102        Facilities managers                                                       11-3013
  0110        Computer and information systems managers                                 11-3021
  0120        Financial managers                                                        11-3031
  0135        Compensation and benefits managers                                        11-3111
  0136        Human resources managers                                                  11-3121
  0137        Training and development managers                                         11-3131
  0140        Industrial production managers                                            11-3051
  0150        Purchasing managers                                                       11-3061
  0160        Transportation, storage, and distribution managers                        11-3071
  0205        Farmers, ranchers, and other agricultural managers                        11-9013
  0220        Construction managers                                                     11-9021
  0230        Education and childcare administrators                                    11-9030
  0300        Architectural and engineering managers                                    11-9041
  0310        Food service managers                                                     11-9051
  0335        Entertainment and recreation managers                                     11-9070
  0340        Lodging managers                                                          11-9081
  0350        Medical and health services managers                                      11-9111
  0360        Natural sciences managers                                                 11-9121
  0410        Property, real estate, and community association managers                 11-9141
  0420        Social and community service managers                                     11-9151
  0425        Emergency management directors                                            11-9161
  0440        Other managers                                                            11-91XX




                                                      10-1
2018
                                                                                2018 SOC
CENSUS                                        DESCRIPTION
                                                                                CODE
CODE



                 Business and Financial Operations Occupations

0500        Agents and business managers of artists, performers, and athletes   13-1011
0510        Buyers and purchasing agents, farm products                         13-1021
0520        Wholesale and retail buyers, except farm products                   13-1022
0530        Purchasing agents, except wholesale, retail, and farm products      13-1023
0540        Claims adjusters, appraisers, examiners, and investigators          13-1030
0565        Compliance officers                                                 13-1041
0600        Cost estimators                                                     13-1051
0630        Human resource workers                                              13-1070
0640        Compensation, benefits, and job analysis specialists                13-1141
0650        Training and development specialists                                13-1151
0700        Logisticians                                                        13-1081
0705        Project management specialists                                      13-1082
0710        Management analysts                                                 13-1111
0725        Meeting, convention, and event planners                             13-1121
0726        Fundraisers                                                         13-1131
0735        Market research analysts and marketing specialists                  13-1161
0750        Business operations specialists, all other                          13-1199
0800        Accountants and auditors                                            13-2011
0810        Property appraisers and assessors                                   13-2020
0820        Budget analysts                                                     13-2031
0830        Credit analysts                                                     13-2041
0845        Financial and investment analysts                                   13-2051
0850        Personal financial advisors                                         13-2052
0860        Insurance underwriters                                              13-2053
0900        Financial examiners                                                 13-2061
0910        Credit counselors and loan officers                                 13-2070
0930        Tax examiners and collectors, and revenue agents                    13-2081
0940        Tax preparers                                                       13-2082
0960        Other financial specialists                                         13-20XX


       Computer, Engineering, and Science Occupations

                 Computer and Mathematical Occupations


1005        Computer and information research scientists                        15-1221
1006        Computer systems analysts                                           15-1211
1007        Information security analysts                                       15-1212
1010        Computer programmers                                                15-1251
1021        Software developers                                                 15-1252
1022        Software quality assurance analysts and testers                     15-1253
1031        Web developers                                                      15-1254
1032        Web and digital interface designers                                 15-1255
1050        Computer support specialists                                        15-1230
1065        Database administrators and architects                              15-124X




                                                       10-2
2018
                                                                                         2018 SOC
CENSUS                                    DESCRIPTION
                                                                                         CODE
CODE

1105     Network and computer systems administrators                                     15-1244
1106     Computer network architects                                                     15-1241
1108     Computer occupations, all other                                                 15-1299
1200     Actuaries                                                                       15-2011
1220     Operations research analysts                                                    15-2031
1240     Other mathematical science occupations                                          15-20XX


              Architecture and Engineering Occupations

1305     Architects, except landscape and naval                                          17-1011
1306     Landscape architects                                                            17-1012
1310     Surveyors, cartographers, and photogrammetrists                                 17-1020
1320     Aerospace engineers                                                             17-2011
1340     Biomedical and agricultural engineers                                           17-20XX
1350     Chemical engineers                                                              17-2041
1360     Civil engineers                                                                 17-2051
1400     Computer hardware engineers                                                     17-2061
1410     Electrical and electronic engineers                                             17-2070
1420     Environmental engineers                                                         17-2081
1430     Industrial engineers, including health and safety                               17-2110
1440     Marine engineers and naval architects                                           17-2121
1450     Materials engineers                                                             17-2131
1460     Mechanical engineers                                                            17-2141
1520     Petroleum, mining and geological engineers, including mining safety engineers   17-21XX
1530     Other engineers                                                                 17-21XX
1541     Architectural and civil drafters                                                17-3011
1545     Other drafters                                                                  17-301X
1551     Electrical and electronic engineering technologists and technicians             17-3023
1555     Other engineering technologists and technicians, except drafters                17-302X
1560     Surveying and mapping technicians                                               17-3031

              Life, Physical, and Social Science Occupations

1600     Agricultural and food scientists                                                19-1010
1610     Biological scientists                                                           19-1020
1640     Conservation scientists and foresters                                           19-1030
1650     Other life scientists                                                           19-10XX
1700     Astronomers and physicists                                                      19-2010
1710     Atmospheric and space scientists                                                19-2021
1720     Chemists and materials scientists                                               19-2030
1745     Environmental scientists and specialists, including health                      19-2041
1750     Geoscientists and hydrologists, except geographers                              19-204X
1760     Physical scientists, all other                                                  19-2099
1800     Economists                                                                      19-3011
1821     Clinical and counseling psychologists                                           19-3033
1822     School psychologists                                                            19-3034
1825     Other psychologists                                                             19-303X
1840     Urban and regional planners                                                     19-3051




                                                  10-3
2018
                                                                                        2018 SOC
CENSUS                                     DESCRIPTION
                                                                                        CODE
CODE

1860        Other social scientists                                                     19-30XX
1900        Agricultural and food science technicians                                   19-4010
1910        Biological technicians                                                      19-4021
1920        Chemical technicians                                                        19-4031
1935        Environmental science and geoscience technicians, and nuclear technicians   19-40XX
1970        Other life, physical, and social science technicians                        19-40YY
1980        Occupational health and safety specialists and technicians                  19-5010

       Education, Legal, Community Service, Arts, and Media Occupations

                 Community and Social Services Occupations

2001        Substance abuse and behavioral disorder counselors                          21-1011
2002        Educational, guidance, and career counselors and advisors                   21-1012
2003        Marriage and family therapists                                              21-1013
2004        Mental health counselors                                                    21-1014
2005        Rehabilitation counselors                                                   21-1015
2006        Counselors, all other                                                       21-1019
2011        Child, family, and school social workers                                    21-1021
2012        Healthcare social workers                                                   21-1022
2013        Mental health and substance abuse social workers                            21-1023
2014        Social workers, all other                                                   21-1029
2015        Probation officers and correctional treatment specialists                   21-1092
2016        Social and human service assistants                                         21-1093
2025        Other community and social service specialists                              21-109X
2040        Clergy                                                                      21-2011
2050        Directors, religious activities and education                               21-2021
2060        Religious workers, all other                                                21-2099

                 Legal Occupations

2100        Lawyers, and judges, magistrates and other judicial workers                 23-10XX
2105        Judicial law clerks                                                         23-1012
2145        Paralegals and legal assistants                                             23-2011
2170        Title examiners, abstractors, and searchers                                 23-2093
2180        Legal support workers, all other                                            23-2099

                 Educational Instruction, and Library Occupations

2205        Postsecondary teachers                                                      25-1000
2300        Preschool and kindergarten teachers                                         25-2010
2310        Elementary and middle school teachers                                       25-2020
2320        Secondary school teachers                                                   25-2030
2330        Special education teachers                                                  25-2050
2350        Tutors                                                                      25-3041
2360        Other teachers and instructors                                              25-30XX
2400        Archivists, curators, and museum technicians                                25-4010
2435        Librarians and media collections specialists                                25-4022
2440        Library technicians                                                         25-4031




                                                   10-4
2018
                                                                                 2018 SOC
CENSUS                                       DESCRIPTION
                                                                                 CODE
CODE

2545        Teaching assistants                                                  25-9040
2555        Other educational instruction and library workers                    25-90XX

                  Arts, Design, Entertainment, Sports, and Media Occupations

2600        Artists and related workers                                          27-1010
2631        Commercial and industrial designers                                  27-1021
2632        Fashion designers                                                    27-1022
2633        Floral designers                                                     27-1023
2634        Graphic designers                                                    27-1024
2635        Interior designers                                                   27-1025
2636        Merchandise displayers and window trimmers                           27-1026
2640        Other designers                                                      27-102X
2700        Actors                                                               27-2011
2710        Producers and directors                                              27-2012
2721        Athletes and sports competitors                                      27-2021
2722        Coaches and scouts                                                   27-2022
2723        Umpires, referees, and other sports officials                        27-2023
2740        Dancers and choreographers                                           27-2030
2751        Music directors and composers                                        27-2041
2752        Musicians and singers                                                27-2042
2755        Disc jockeys, except radio                                           27-2091
2770        Entertainers and performers, sports and related workers, all other   27-2099
2805        Broadcast announcers and radio disc jockeys                          27-3011
2810        News analysts, reporters, and journalists                            27-3023
2825        Public relations specialists                                         27-3031
2830        Editors                                                              27-3041
2840        Technical writers                                                    27-3042
2850        Writers and authors                                                  27-3043
2861        Interpreters and translators                                         27-3091
2862        Court reporters and simultaneous captioners                          27-3092
2865        Media and communication workers, all other                           27-3099
2905        Other media and communication equipment workers                      27-40XX
2910        Photographers                                                        27-4021
2920        Television, video, and film camera operators and editors             27-4030


       Healthcare Practitioners and Technical Occupations

3000        Chiropractors                                                        29-1011
3010        Dentists                                                             29-1020
3030        Dietitians and nutritionists                                         29-1031
3040        Optometrists                                                         29-1041
3050        Pharmacists                                                          29-1051
3090        Physicians                                                           29-1210
3100        Surgeons                                                             29-1240
3110        Physician assistants                                                 29-1071
3120        Podiatrists                                                          29-1081
3140        Audiologists                                                         29-1181
3150        Occupational therapists                                              29-1122




                                                     10-5
2018
                                                                      2018 SOC
CENSUS                                    DESCRIPTION
                                                                      CODE
CODE

3160     Physical therapists                                          29-1123
3200     Radiation therapists                                         29-1124
3210     Recreational therapists                                      29-1125
3220     Respiratory therapists                                       29-1126
3230     Speech-language pathologists                                 29-1127
3245     Other therapists                                             29-112X
3250     Veterinarians                                                29-1131
3255     Registered nurses                                            29-1141
3256     Nurse anesthetists                                           29-1151
3258     Nurse practitioners, and nurse midwives                      29-11XX
3261     Acupuncturists                                               29-1291
3270     Healthcare diagnosing or treating practitioners, all other   29-1299
3300     Clinical laboratory technologists and technicians            29-2010
3310     Dental hygienists                                            29-1292
3321     Cardiovascular technologists and technicians                 29-2031
3322     Diagnostic medical sonographers                              29-2032
3323     Radiologic technologists and technicians                     29-2034
3324     Magnetic resonance imaging technologists                     29-2035
3330     Nuclear medicine technologists and medical dosimetrists      29-203X
3401     Emergency medical technicians                                29-2042
3402     Paramedics                                                   29-2043
3421     Pharmacy technicians                                         29-2052
3422     Psychiatric technicians                                      29-2053
3423     Surgical technologists                                       29-2055
3424     Veterinary technologists and technicians                     29-2056
3430     Dietetic technicians and ophthalmic medical technicians      29-205X
3500     Licensed practical and licensed vocational nurses            29-2061
3515     Medical records specialists                                  29-2072
3520     Opticians, dispensing                                        29-2081
3545     Miscellaneous health technologists and technicians           29-2090
3550     Other healthcare practitioners and technical occupations     29-9000




                                                  10-6
  2018
                                                                                 2018 SOC
  CENSUS                                      DESCRIPTION
                                                                                 CODE
  CODE

Service Occupations


         Healthcare Support Occupations

  3601        Home health aides                                                  31-1121
  3602        Personal care aides                                                31-1122
  3603        Nursing assistants                                                 31-1131
  3605        Orderlies and psychiatric aides                                    31-113X
  3610        Occupational therapist assistants and aides                        31-2010
  3620        Physical therapist assistants and aides                            31-2020
  3630        Massage therapists                                                 31-9011
  3640        Dental assistants                                                  31-9091
  3645        Medical assistants                                                 31-9092
  3646        Medical transcriptionists                                          31-9094
  3647        Pharmacy aides                                                     31-9095
  3648        Veterinary assistants and laboratory animal caretakers             31-9096
  3649        Phlebotomists                                                      31-9097
  3655        Other healthcare support workers                                   31-909X

         Protective Service Occupations

  3700        First-line supervisors of correctional officers                    33-1011
  3710        First-line supervisors of police and detectives                    33-1012
  3720        First-line supervisors of firefighting and prevention workers      33-1021
  3725        Miscellaneous first-line supervisors, protective service workers   33-1090
  3740        Firefighters                                                       33-2011
  3750        Fire inspectors                                                    33-2020
  3801        Bailiffs                                                           33-3011
  3802        Correctional officers and jailers                                  33-3012
  3820        Detectives and criminal investigators                              33-3021
  3840        Fish and game wardens and parking enforcement officers             33-30XX
  3870        Police officers                                                    33-3050
  3900        Animal control workers                                             33-9011
  3910        Private detectives and investigators                               33-9021
  3930        Security guards and gambling surveillance officers                 33-9030
  3940        Crossing guards and flaggers                                       33-9091
  3945        Transportation security screeners                                  33-9093
  3946        School bus monitors                                                33-9094
  3960        Other protective service workers                                   33-909X

         Food Preparation and Serving Related Occupations

  4000        Chefs and head cooks                                               35-1011
  4010        First-line supervisors of food preparation and serving workers     35-1012
  4020        Cooks                                                              35-2010
  4030        Food preparation workers                                           35-2021
  4040        Bartenders                                                         35-3011




                                                       10-7
2018
                                                                                           2018 SOC
CENSUS                                  DESCRIPTION
                                                                                           CODE
CODE

4055     Fast food and counter workers                                                     35-3023
4110     Waiters and waitresses                                                            35-3031
4120     Food servers, non-restaurant                                                      35-3041
4130     Dining room and cafeteria attendants and bartender helpers                        35-9011
4140     Dishwashers                                                                       35-9021
4150     Hosts and hostesses, restaurant, lounge, and coffee shop                          35-9031
4160     Food preparation and serving related workers, all other                           35-9099

   Building and Grounds Cleaning and Maintenance Occupations

4200     First-line supervisors of housekeeping and janitorial workers                     37-1011
4210     First-line supervisors of landscaping, lawn service, and groundskeeping workers   37-1012
4220     Janitors and building cleaners                                                    31-201X
4230     Maids and housekeeping cleaners                                                   37-2012
4240     Pest control workers                                                              37-2021
4251     Landscaping and grounds keeping workers                                           37-3011
4252     Tree trimmers and pruners                                                         37-3013
4255     Other grounds maintenance workers                                                 37-301X

   Personal Care and Service Occupations

4330     Supervisors of personal care and service workers                                  39-1000
4340     Animal trainers                                                                   39-2011
4350     Animal caretakers                                                                 39-2021
4400     Gambling services workers                                                         39-3010
4420     Ushers, lobby attendants, and ticket takers                                       39-3031
4435     Other entertainment attendants and related workers                                39-30XX
4461     Embalmers, crematory operators and funeral attendants                             39-40XX
4465     Morticians, undertakers, and funeral arrangers                                    39-4031
4500     Barbers                                                                           39-5011
4510     Hairdressers, hairstylists, and cosmetologists                                    39-5012
4521     Manicurists and pedicurists                                                       39-5092
4522     Skincare specialists                                                              39-5094
4525     Other personal appearance workers                                                 39-509X
4530     Baggage porters, bellhops, and concierges                                         39-6010
4540     Tour and travel guides                                                            39-7010
4600     Childcare workers                                                                 39-9011
4621     Exercise trainers and group fitness instructors                                   39-9031
4622     Recreation workers                                                                39-9032
4640     Residential advisors                                                              39-9041
4655     Personal care and service workers, all other                                      39-9099




                                                 10-8
  2018
                                                                                            2018 SOC
  CENSUS                                       DESCRIPTION
                                                                                            CODE
  CODE

Sales and Office Occupations


         Sales and Related Occupations

  4700        First-line supervisors of retail sales workers                                41-1011
  4710        First-line supervisors of non-retail sales workers                            41-1012
  4720        Cashiers                                                                      41-2010
  4740        Counter and rental clerks                                                     41-2021
  4750        Parts salespersons                                                            41-2022
  4760        Retail salespersons                                                           41-2031
  4800        Advertising sales agents                                                      41-3011
  4810        Insurance sales agents                                                        41-3021
  4820        Securities, commodities, and financial services sales agents                  41-3031
  4830        Travel agents                                                                 41-3041
  4840        Sales representatives of services, except advertising, insurance, financial   41-3091
              services, and travel
  4850        Sales representatives, wholesale and manufacturing                            41-4010
  4900        Models, demonstrators, and product promoters                                  41-9010
  4920        Real estate brokers and sales agents                                          41-9020
  4930        Sales engineers                                                               41-9031
  4940        Telemarketers                                                                 41-9041
  4950        Door-to-door sales workers, news and street vendors, and related workers      41-9091
  4965        Sales and related workers, all other                                          41-9099

         Office and Administrative Support Occupations

  5000        First-line supervisors of office and administrative support workers           43-1011
  5010        Switchboard operators, including answering service                            43-2011
  5020        Telephone operators                                                           43-2021
  5040        Communications equipment operators, all other                                 43-2099
  5100        Bill and account collectors                                                   43-3011
  5110        Billing and posting clerks                                                    43-3021
  5120        Bookkeeping, accounting and auditing clerks                                   43-3031
  5140        Payroll and timekeeping clerks                                                43-3051
  5150        Procurement clerks                                                            43-3061
  5160        Tellers                                                                       43-3071
  5165        Other financial clerks                                                        43-30XX
  5220        Court, municipal, and license clerks                                          43-4031
  5230        Credit authorizers, checkers, and clerks                                      43-4041
  5240        Customer service representatives                                              43-4051
  5250        Eligibility interviewers, government programs                                 43-4061
  5260        File Clerks                                                                   43-4071
  5300        Hotel, motel, and resort desk clerks                                          43-4081
  5310        Interviewers, except eligibility and loan                                     43-4111
  5320        Library assistants, clerical                                                  43-4121
  5330        Loan interviewers and clerks                                                  43-4131
  5340        New accounts clerks                                                           43-4141
  5350        Correspondence clerks and order clerks                                        43-4XXX




                                                        10-9
2018
                                                                                           2018 SOC
CENSUS                                    DESCRIPTION
                                                                                           CODE
CODE

5360     Human resources assistants, except payroll and timekeeping                        43-4161
5400     Receptionists and information clerks                                              43-4171
5410     Reservation and transportation ticket agents and travel clerks                    43-4181
5420     Other information and record clerks, all other                                    43-4YYY
5500     Cargo and freight agents                                                          43-5011
5510     Couriers and messengers                                                           43-5021
5521     Public safety telecommunicators                                                   43-5031
5522     Dispatchers, except police, fire, and ambulance                                   43-5032
5530     Meter readers, utilities                                                          43-5041
5540     Postal service clerks                                                             43-5051
5550     Postal service mail carriers                                                      43-5052
5560     Postal service mail sorters, processors, and processing machine operators         43-5053
5600     Production, planning, and expediting clerks                                       43-5061
5610     Shipping, receiving, and inventory clerks                                         43-5071
5630     Weighers, measurers, checkers, and samplers, recordkeeping                        43-5111
5710     Executive secretaries and executive administrative assistants                     43-6011
5720     Legal secretaries and administrative assistants                                   43-6012
5730     Medical secretaries and administrative assistants                                 43-6013
5740     Secretaries and administrative assistants, except legal, medical, and executive   43-6014
5810     Data entry keyers                                                                 43-9021
5820     Word processors and typists                                                       43-9022
5840     Insurance claims and policy processing clerks                                     43-9041
5850     Mail clerks and mail machine operators, except postal service                     43-9051
5860     Office clerks, general                                                            43-9061
5900     Office machine operators, except computer                                         43-9071
5910     Proofreaders and copy markers                                                     43-9081
5920     Statistical assistants                                                            43-9111
5940     Other office and administrative support workers                                   43-9XXX




                                                 10-10
  2018
                                                                                             2018 SOC
  CENSUS                                    DESCRIPTION
                                                                                             CODE
  CODE

Natural Resources, Construction, and Maintenance Occupations


      Farming, Fishing, and Forestry Occupations

  6005     First-line supervisors of farming, fishing, and forestry workers                  45-1011
  6010     Agricultural inspectors                                                           45-2011
  6040     Graders and sorters, agricultural products                                        45-2041
  6050     Other agricultural workers                                                        45-20XX
  6115     Fishing and hunting workers                                                       45-3031
  6120     Forest and conservation workers                                                   45-4011
  6130     Logging workers                                                                   45-4020

      Construction and Extraction Occupations

  6200     First-line supervisors of construction trades and extraction workers              47-1011
  6210     Boilermakers                                                                      47-2011
  6220     Brickmasons, blockmasons, stonemasons, and reinforcing iron and rebar workers     47-2XXX
  6230     Carpenters                                                                        47-2031
  6240     Carpet, floor, and tile installers and finishers                                  47-2040
  6250     Cement masons, concrete finishers, and terrazzo workers                           47-2050
  6260     Construction laborers                                                             47-2061
  6305     Construction equipment operators                                                  47-2070
  6330     Drywall installers, ceiling tile installers, and tapers                           47-2080
  6355     Electricians                                                                      47-2111
  6360     Glaziers                                                                          47-2121
  6400     Insulation workers                                                                47-2130
  6410     Painters and paperhangers                                                         47-2140
  6441     Pipelayers                                                                        47-2151
  6442     Plumbers, pipefitters, and steamfitters                                           47-2152
  6460     Plasterers and stucco masons                                                      47-2161
  6515     Roofers                                                                           47-2181
  6520     Sheet metal workers                                                               47-2211
  6530     Structural iron and steel workers                                                 47-2221
  6540     Solar photovoltaic installers                                                     47-2231
  6600     Helpers, construction trades                                                      47-3010
  6660     Construction and building inspectors                                              47-4011
  6700     Elevator and escalator installers and repairers                                   47-4021
  6710     Fence erectors                                                                    47-4031
  6720     Hazardous materials removal workers                                               47-4041
  6730     Highway maintenance workers                                                       47-4051
  6740     Rail-track laying and maintenance equipment operators                             47-4061
  6765     Other construction and related workers                                            47-40XX
  6800     Derrick, rotary drill, and service unit operators, and roustabouts, oil and gas   47-50YY
  6825     Surface mining machine operators and earth drillers                               47-5020
  6835     Explosives workers, ordnance handling experts, and blasters                       47-5032
  6850     Underground mining machine operators                                              47-5040
  6950     Other extraction workers                                                          47-50XX




                                                    10-11
2018
                                                                                           2018 SOC
CENSUS                                   DESCRIPTION
                                                                                           CODE
CODE

   Installation, Maintenance, and Repair Occuptions

7000     First-line supervisors of mechanics, installers, and repairers                    49-1011
7010     Computer, automated teller, and office machine repairers                          49-2011
7020     Radio and telecommunications equipment installers and repairers                   49-2020
7030     Avionics technicians                                                              49-2091
7040     Electric motor, power tool, and related repairers                                 49-2092
7100     Other electrical and electronic equipment mechanics, installers, and repairers    49-209X
7120     Audiovisual equipment installers and repairers                                    49-2097
7130     Security and fire alarm systems installers                                        49-2098
7140     Aircraft mechanics and service technicians                                        49-3011
7150     Automotive body and related repairers                                             49-3021
7160     Automotive glass installers and repairers                                         49-3022
7200     Automotive service technicians and mechanics                                      49-3023
7210     Bus and truck mechanics and diesel engine specialists                             49-3031
7220     Heavy vehicle and mobile equipment service technicians and mechanics              49-3040
7240     Small engine mechanics                                                            49-3050
7260     Miscellaneous vehicle and mobile equipment mechanics, installers, and repairers   49-3090
7300     Control and valve installers and repairers                                        49-9010
7315     Heating, air conditioning, and refrigeration mechanics and installers             49-9021
7320     Home appliance repairers                                                          49-9031
7330     Industrial and refractory machinery mechanics                                     49-904X
7340     Maintenance and repair workers, general                                           49-9071
7350     Maintenance workers, machinery                                                    49-9043
7360     Millwrights                                                                       49-9044
7410     Electrical power-line installers and repairers                                    49-9051
7420     Telecommunications line installers and repairers                                  49-9052
7430     Precision instrument and equipment repairers                                      49-9060
7510     Coin, vending, and amusement machine servicers and repairers                      49-9091
7540     Locksmiths and safe repairers                                                     49-9094
7560     Riggers                                                                           49-9096
7610     Helpers--installation, maintenance, and repair workers                            49-9098
7640     Other installation, maintenance, and repair workers                               49-90XX




                                                10-12
  2018
                                                                                              2018 SOC
  CENSUS                                     DESCRIPTION
                                                                                              CODE
  CODE

Production, Transportation, and Material Moving Occupations


        Production Occupation


 7700      First-line supervisors of production and operating workers                        51-1011
 7720      Electrical, electronics, and electromechanical assemblers                         51-2020
 7730      Engine and other machine assemblers                                               51-2031
 7740      Structural metal fabricators and fitters                                          51-2041
 7750      Other assemblers and fabricators                                                  51-20XX
 7800      Bakers                                                                            51-3011
 7810      Butchers and other meat, poultry, and fish processing workers                     51-3020
 7830      Food and tobacco roasting, baking, and drying machine operators and tenders       51-3091
 7840      Food batchmakers                                                                  51-3092
 7850      Food cooking machine operators and tenders                                        51-3093
 7855      Food processing workers, all other                                                51-3099
 7905      Computer numerically controlled tool operators and programmers                    51-9160
 7925      Forming machine setters, operators, and tenders, metal and plastic                51-4020
 7950      Cutting, punching, and press machine setters, operators, and tenders, metal and   51-4031
           plastic
 8000      Grinding, lapping, polishing, and buffing machine tool setters, operators, and    51-4033
           tenders, metal and plastic
 8025      Other machine tool setters, operators, and tenders, metal and plastic             51-403X
 8030      Machinists                                                                        51-4041
 8040      Metal furnace operators, tenders, pourers, and casters                            51-4050
 8100      Model makers, patternmakers, and molding machine setters, metal and plastic       51-40XX
 8130      Tool and die makers                                                               51-4111
 8140      Welding, soldering, and brazing workers                                           51-4120
 8225      Other metal workers and plastic workers                                           51-4XXX
 8250      Prepress technicians and workers                                                  51-5111
 8255      Printing press operators                                                          51-5112
 8256      Print binding and finishing workers                                               51-5113
 8300      Laundry and dry-cleaning workers                                                  51-6011
 8310      Pressers, textile, garment, and related materials                                 51-6021
 8320      Sewing machine operators                                                          51-6031
 8335      Shoe and leather workers                                                          51-6040
 8350      Tailors, dressmakers, and sewers                                                  51-6050
 8365      Textile machine setters, operators, and tenders                                   51-6060
 8450      Upholsterers                                                                      51-6093
 8465      Other textile, apparel, and furnishings workers                                   51-609X
 8500      Cabinetmakers and bench carpenters                                                51-7011
 8510      Furniture finishers                                                               51-7021
 8530      Sawing machine setters, operators, and tenders, wood                              51-7041
 8540      Woodworking machine setters, operators, and tenders, except sawing                51-7042
 8555      Other woodworkers                                                                 51-70XX
 8600      Power plant operators, distributors, and dispatchers                              51-8010
 8610      Stationary engineers and boiler operators                                         51-8021
 8620      Water and wastewater treatment plant and system operators                         51-8031
 8630      Miscellaneous plant and system operators                                          51-8090




                                                     10-13
 2018
                                                                                            2018 SOC
 CENSUS                                    DESCRIPTION
                                                                                            CODE
 CODE

8640      Chemical processing machine setters, operators, and tenders                      51-9010
8650      Crushing, grinding, polishing, mixing, and blending workers                      51-9020
8710      Cutting workers                                                                  51-9030
8720      Extruding, forming, pressing, and compacting machine setters, operators, and     51-9041
          tenders
8730      Furnace, kiln, oven, drier, and kettle operators and tenders                     51-9051
8740      Inspectors, testers, sorters, samplers, and weighers                             51-9061
8750      Jewelers and precious stone and metal workers                                    51-9071
8760      Dental and ophthalmic laboratory technicians and medical appliance technicians   51-9080
8800      Packaging and filling machine operators and tenders                              51-9111
8810      Painting workers                                                                 51-9120
8830      Photographic process workers and processing machine operators                    51-9151
8850      Adhesive bonding machine operators and tenders                                   51-9191

8910      Etchers and engravers                                                            51-9194
8920      Molders, shapers, and casters, except metal and plastic                          51-9195
8930      Paper goods machine setters, operators, and tenders                              51-9196
8940      Tire builders                                                                    51-9197
8950      Helpers--production workers                                                      51-9198
8990      Miscellaneous production workers, including equipment operators and tenders      51-91XX

       Transportation and Material Moving Occupations

                 Transportation Occupations:

9005      Supervisors of transportation and material moving workers                        53-1000
9030      Aircraft pilots and flight engineers                                             53-2010
9040      Air traffic controllers and airfield operations specialists                      53-2020
9050      Flight attendants                                                                53-2031
9110      Ambulance drivers and attendants, except emergency medical technicians           53-3011
9121      Bus drivers, school                                                              53-3051
9122      Bus drivers, transit and intercity                                               53-3052
9130      Driver/sales workers and truck drivers                                           53-3030
9141      Shuttle drivers and chauffeurs                                                   53-3053
9142      Taxi drivers                                                                     53-3054
9150      Motor vehicle operators, all other                                               53-3099
9210      Locomotive engineers and operators                                               53-4010
9240      Railroad conductors and yardmasters                                              53-4031
9265      Other rail transportation workers                                                53-40XX
9300      Sailors and marine oilers, and ship engineers                                    53-50XX
9310      Ship and boat captains and operators                                             53-5020
9350      Parking attendants                                                               53-6021
9365      Transportation service attendants                                                53-6030
9410      Transportation inspectors                                                        53-6051
9415      Passenger attendants                                                             53-6061
9430      Other transportation workers                                                     53-60XX




                                                  10-14
 2018
                                                                    2018 SOC
 CENSUS                                     DESCRIPTION
                                                                    CODE
 CODE

                 Material Moving Occupations

9510      Crane and tower operators                                53-7021
9570      Conveyor, dredge, and hoist and winch operators          53-70XX
9600      Industrial truck and tractor operators                   53-7051
9610      Cleaners of vehicles and equipment                       53-7061
9620      Laborers and freight, stock, and material movers, hand   53-7062
9630      Machine feeders and offbearers                           53-7063
9640      Packers and packagers, hand                              53-7064
9645      Stockers and order fillers                               53-7065
9650      Pumping station operators                                53-7070
9720      Refuse and recyclable material collectors                53-7081
9760      Other material moving workers                            53-71XX

       Military Specific Occupations

9840      Military Specific Occupations                            55-0000




                                                    10-15
                                           Detailed Occupation Recodes
                                                      (01-23)


      These codes correspond to Items PRDTOCC1 and PRDTOCC2 in positions 476-479 of the Basic CPS
      record layout in all months, except the ASEC files. In ASEC, these codes correspond to Item A_DTOCC.

CODE            CODE DESCRIPTION                                                     OCCUPATION CODE

 1              Management occupations                                                     0010-0440
 2              Business and financial operations occupations                              0500-0960
 3              Computer and mathematical occupations                                      1005-1240
 4              Architecture and engineering occupations                                   1305-1560
 5              Life, physical, and social science occupations                             1600-1980
 6              Community and social service occupation                                    2001-2060
 7              Legal occupations                                                          2100-2180
 8              Education, training, and library occupations                               2205-2555
 9              Arts, design, entertainment, sports, and media occupations                 2600-2920
 10             Healthcare practitioner and technical occupations                          3000-3550
 11             Healthcare support occupations                                             3601-3655
 12             Protective service occupations                                             3700-3960
 13             Food preparation and serving related occupations                           4000-4160
 14             Building and grounds cleaning and maintenance occupations                  4200-4255
 15             Personal care and service occupations                                      4330-4655
 16             Sales and related occupations                                              4700-4965
 17             Office and administrative support occupations                              5000-5940
 18             Farming, fishing, and forestry occupations                                 6005-6130
 19             Construction and extraction occupations                                    6200-6950
 20             Installation, maintenance, and repair occupations                          7000-7640
 21             Production occupations                                                     7700-8990
 22             Transportation and material moving occupations                             9005-9760
 23             Military specific occupations                                              9840




                                                      10-16
                               Major Occupation Group Recodes
                                           (01-11)


  These codes correspond to Items PRMJOCC1 and PRMJOCC2 located in positions 482-485 of the Basic
  CPS record layout in all months, except the ASEC files. In ASEC, these codes correspond to Item
  A_MJOCC.

CODE       CODE DESCRIPTION                                                OCCUPATION CODE

  1        Management, business, and financial occupations                     0010-0960
  2        Professional and related occupations                                1005-3550
  3        Service occupations                                                 3601-4655
  4        Sales and related occupations                                       4700-4965
  5        Office and administrative support occupations                       5000-5940
  6        Farming, fishing, and forestry occupations                          6005-6130
  7        Construction and extraction occupations                             6200-6950
  8        Installation, maintenance, and repair occupations                   7000-7640
  9        Production occupations                                              7700-8990
  10       Transportation and material moving occupations                      9005-9760
  11       Military specific occupations                                       9840




                                                    10-17
                                           ATTACHMENT 11

                                   Specific Metropolitan Identifiers


                                      (Geographic Attachment for
                                        CPS Public Use File
                                          Documentation
                                      Beginning August, 2015)


List 1. FIPS Metropolitan Area (CBSA) Codes

List 2. FIPS Consolidated Statistical Area (CSA) Codes

List 3. Individual Principal Cities

List 4: FIPS County Codes



Unless otherwise noted, all definitions for geographic areas on these lists reflect the February 28, 2013
OMB definitions. For an explanation of the geographic suppression changes that went into effect in
January 2023, please see: Changes to 2023 CPS Public Use Microdata Files (census.gov)




                                                    11-1
                    LIST 1: FIPS Metropolitan Area (CBSA) Codes

            Metropolitan Areas are defined using February 28, 2013 OMB definitions.

FIPS Code             Metropolitan (CBSA) TITLE

10180                 Abilene, TX
10420                 Akron, OH
10580                 Albany-Schenectady-Troy, NY
10740                 Albuquerque, NM
10900                 Allentown-Bethlehem-Easton, PA-NJ
11100                 Amarillo, TX
11460                 Ann Arbor, MI
11540                 Appleton, WI
11700                 Asheville, NC
12020                 Athens-Clarke County, GA
12060                 Atlanta-Sandy Springs-Roswell, GA
12100                 Atlantic City-Hammonton, NJ
12220                 Auburn-Opelika, AL
12260                 Augusta-Richmond County, GA-SC
12420                 Austin-Round Rock, TX
12540                 Bakersfield, CA
12580                 Baltimore-Columbia-Towson, MD
12620                 Bangor, ME
12700                 Barnstable, MA
12940                 Baton Rouge, LA
12980                 Battle Creek, MI
13140                 Beaumont-Port Arthur, TX
13460                 Bend-Redmond, OR
13740                 Billings, MT
13780                 Binghamton, NY
13820                 Birmingham-Hoover, AL
13980                 Blacksburg—Christiansburg-Radford, VA
14010                 Bloomington, IL
14020                 Bloomington, IN
14260                 Boise City, ID
14460                 Boston-Cambridge-Newton, MA-NH
14500                 Boulder, CO
14540                 Bowling Green, KY
14860                 Bridgeport-Stamford-Norwalk, CT



                                            11-2
FIPS Code   Metropolitan (CBSA) TITLE

15180       Brownsville-Harlingen, TX
15380       Buffalo-Cheektowaga-Niagara Falls, NY
15500       Burlington, NC
15540       Burlington-South Burlington, VT
15680       California-Lexington Park, MD
15940       Canton-Massillon, OH
15980       Cape Coral-Fort Myers, FL
16060       Carbondale-Marion, IL
16300       Cedar Rapids, IA
16540       Chambersburg-Waynesboro, PA
16580       Champaign-Urbana, IL
16620       Charleston, WV
16700       Charleston-North Charleston, SC
16740       Charlotte-Concord-Gastonia, NC-SC
16820       Charlottesville, VA
16860       Chattanooga, TN-GA
16980       Chicago-Naperville-Elgin, IL-IN-WI
17020       Chico, CA
17140       Cincinnati, OH-KY-IN
17300       Clarksville, TN-KY
17420       Cleveland, TN
17460       Cleveland-Elyria, OH
17660       Coeur d’Alene, ID
17780       College Station-Bryan, TX
17820       Colorado Springs, CO
17900       Columbia, SC
17980       Columbus, GA-AL
18140       Columbus, OH
18580       Corpus Christi, TX
19100       Dallas-Fort Worth-Arlington, TX
19300       Daphne-Fairhope-Foley, AL
19340       Davenport-Moline-Rock Island, IA-IL
19380       Dayton, OH
19660       Deltona-Daytona Beach-Ormond Beach, FL
19740       Denver-Aurora-Lakewood, CO
19780       Des Moines-West Des Moines, IA
19820       Detroit-Warren-Dearborn, MI
20100       Dover, DE
20500       Durham-Chapel Hill, NC
20700       East Stroudsburg, PA


                                11-3
FIPS Code   Metropolitan (CBSA) TITLE

21140       Elkhart-Goshen, IN
21340       El Paso, TX
21500       Erie, PA
21660       Eugene, OR
21780       Evansville, IN-KY
22020       Fargo, ND-MN
22140       Farmington, NM
22180       Fayetteville, NC
22220       Fayetteville-Springdale-Rogers, AR-MO
22420       Flint, MI
22500       Florence, SC
22520       Florence-Muscle Shoals, AL
22660       Fort Collins, CO
22900       Fort Smith, AR-OK
23060       Fort Wayne, IN
23420       Fresno, CA
23540       Gainesville, FL
23580       Gainesville, GA
24020       Glen Falls, NY
24140       Goldsboro, NC
24340       Grand Rapids-Wyoming, MI
24540       Greeley, CO
24580       Green Bay, WI
24660       Greensboro-High Point, NC
24780       Greenville, NC
24860       Greenville-Anderson-Mauldin, SC
25180       Hagerstown-Martinsburg, MD-WV
25260       Hanford-Corcoran, CA
25420       Harrisburg-Carlisle, PA
25540       Hartford-West Hartford-East Hartford, CT
25860       Hickory-Morganton-Lenoir, NC
25940       Hilton Head Island-Bluffton-Beaufort, SC
26420       Houston-Baytown-Sugar Land, TX
26580       Huntington-Ashland, WV-KY-OH
26620       Huntsville, AL
26820       Idaho Falls, ID
26900       Indianapolis, IN
26980       Iowa City, IA
27100       Jackson, MI
27140       Jackson, MS


                                  11-4
FIPS Code   Metropolitan (CBSA) TITLE

27260       Jacksonville, FL
27340       Jacksonville, NC
27500       Janesville-Beloit, WI
27740       Johnson City, TN
27780       Johnstown, PA
27980       Kahului-Wailuku-Lahaina, HI
28020       Kalamazoo-Portage, MI
28140       Kansas City, MO-KS
28420       Kennewick-Richland, WA
28660       Killeen-Temple-Fort Hood, TX
28700       Kingsport-Bristol, TN-VA
28940       Knoxville, TN
29180       Lafayette, LA
29200       Lafayette-West Lafayette, IN
29340       Lake Charles, LA
29460       Lakeland-Winter Haven, FL
29540       Lancaster, PA
29620       Lansing-East Lansing, MI
29700       Laredo, TX
29740       Las Cruces, NM
29820       Las Vegas-Paradise, NV
30340       Lewiston-Auburn, ME
30460       Lexington-Fayette, KY
30780       Little Rock-North Little Rock, AR
30980       Longview, TX
31080       Los Angeles-Long Beach-Anaheim, CA
31140       Louisville, KY-IN
31180       Lubbock, TX
31420       Macon, GA
31540       Madison, WI
31700       Manchester-Nashua, NH
32580       McAllen-Edinburg-Mission, TX
32780       Medford, OR
32820       Memphis, TN-MS-AR
33100       Miami-Fort Lauderdale-West Palm Beach, FL
33340       Milwaukee-Waukesha-West Allis, WI
33460       Minneapolis-St Paul-Bloomington, MN-WI
33660       Mobile, AL
33700       Modesto, CA
33740       Monroe, LA


                                 11-5
FIPS Code   Metropolitan (CBSA) TITLE

33780       Monroe, MI
33860       Montgomery, AL
34060       Morgantown, WV
34580       Mount Vernon-Anacortes, WA
34740       Muskegon-Norton Shores, MI
34820       Myrtle Beach-Conway-North Myrtle Beach, SC-NC
34940       Naples-Immokalee-Marco Island, FL
34980       Nashville-Davidson-Murfreesboro, TN
35300       New Haven-Milford, CT
35380       New Orleans-Metairie, LA
35620       New York-Newark- Jersey City, NY-NJ-PA (White Plains central city
            recoded to balance of metropolitan)
35660       Niles-Benton Harbor, MI
35840       North Port-Sarasota-Bradenton, FL
35980       Norwich-New London, CT
36100       Ocala, FL
36220       Odessa, TX
36260       Ogden-Clearfield, UT
36420       Oklahoma City, OK
36540       Omaha-Council Bluffs, NE-IA
36740       Orlando, FL
36780       Oshkosh-Neenah, WI
37100       Oxnard-Thousand Oaks-Ventura, CA
37340       Palm Bay-Melbourne-Titusville, FL
37460       Panama City, FL
37860       Pensacola-Ferry Pass-Brent, FL
37900       Peoria, IL
37980       Philadelphia-Camden-Wilmington, PA-NJ-DE
38060       Phoenix-Mesa-Scottsdale, AZ
38220       Pine Bluff, AR
38300       Pittsburgh, PA
38860       Portland-South Portland, ME
38900       Portland-Vancouver-Hillsboro, OR-WA
38940       Port St. Lucie-Fort Pierce, FL
39140       Prescott, AZ
39300       Providence-Warwick, RI-MA
39340       Provo-Orem, UT
39540       Racine, WI
39580       Raleigh, NC
39740       Reading, PA


                                 11-6
FIPS Code   Metropolitan (CBSA) TITLE

39820       Redding, CA
40060       Richmond, VA
40140       Riverside-San Bernardino-Ontario, CA
40220       Roanoke, VA
40380       Rochester, NY
40420       Rockford, IL
40900       Sacramento--Arden-Arcade–Roseville, CA
40980       Saginaw, MI
41100       St. George, UT
41180       St. Louis, MO-IL
41420       Salem, OR
41500       Salinas, CA
41540       Salisbury, MD
41620       Salt Lake City, UT
41700       San Antonio, TX
41740       San Diego-Carlsbad-San Marcos, CA
41860       San Francisco-Oakland-Fremont, CA
41940       San Jose-Sunnyvale-Santa Clara, CA
42020       San Luis Obispo-Paso Robles, CA
42100       Santa Cruz-Watsonville, CA
42140       Santa Fe, NM
42200       Santa Maria-Santa Barbara, CA
42220       Santa Rosa-Petaluma, CA
42340       Savannah, GA
42540       Scranton--Wilkes-Barre, PA
42660       Seattle-Tacoma-Bellevue, WA
43300       Sherman-Dennison, TX
43340       Shreveport-Bossier City, LA
43620       Sioux Falls, SD
43780       South Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI
43900       Spartanburg, SC
44060       Spokane-Spokane Valley, WA
44100       Springfield, IL
44140       Springfield, MA
44180       Springfield, MO
44700       Stockton-Lodi, CA
45060       Syracuse, NY
45220       Tallahassee, FL
45300       Tampa-St. Petersburg-Clearwater, FL
45460       Terre Haute, IN


                                11-7
FIPS Code   Metropolitan (CBSA) TITLE

45780       Toledo, OH
45820       Topeka, KS
45940       Trenton, NJ
46060       Tucson, AZ
46140       Tulsa, OK
46340       Tyler, TX
46520       Urban Honolulu, HI
46540       Utica-Rome, NY
46700       Vallejo-Fairfield, CA
47220       Vineland-Bridgeton, NJ
47260       Virginia Beach-Norfolk-Newport News, VA-NC
47300       Visalia-Porterville, CA
47380       Waco, TX
47580       Warner Robins, GA
47900       Washington-Arlington-Alexandria, DC-VA-MD-WV
47940       Waterloo-Cedar Falls, IA
48060       Watertown-Fort Drum, NY
48140       Wausau, WI
48620       Wichita, KS
48660       Wichita Falls, TX
48700       Williamsport, PA
49020       Winchester, VA-WV
49180       Winston-Salem, NC
49340       Worcester, MA-CT
49620       York-Hanover, PA
49660       Youngstown-Warren-Boardman, OH-PA
49740       Yuma, AZ




                               11-8
           LIST 2: FIPS Consolidated Statistical Area (CSA) Codes

The following CSA’s (Combined Statistical Areas) contain 2 or more Metropolitan Statistical
Areas that are in the CPS sample and are individually identified on the public use files.
Micropolitan Statistical Areas are not specifically identified in the CPS and are not used to
identify CSA’s nor are parts of such areas coded as belonging to CSA’s. The component
CBSA’s identified on the CPS Public Use Files are listed for each CSA.


CSA           CBSA           CSA Title
Code          Code                 Component Parts (CBSA’s)

104                          Albany-Schenectady, NY
              10580                Albany-Schenectady-Troy, NY
              24020                Glen Falls, NY

106                          Albuquerque-Santa Fe-Las Vegas, NM
              10740                Albuquerque, NM
              42140                Santa Fe, NM

118                          Appleton-Oshkosh-Neenah, WI
              11540                 Appleton, WI
              36780                 Oshkosh-Neenah, WI

122                          Atlanta--Athens-Clarke County—Sandy Springs, GA
              12020                 Athens-Clarke County, GA
              12060                 Atlanta-Sandy Springs-Roswell, GA
              23580                 Gainesville, GA

148                          Boston-Worcester-Providence, MA-RI-NH-CT
              12700                 Barnstable Town, MA
              14460                 Boston-Cambridge-Newton-MA-NH
              31700                 Manchester-Nashua, NH
              39300                 Providence-Warwick, RI-MA
              49340                 Worcester, MA-CT

162                          Cape Coral-Fort Myers-Naples, FL
              15980                Cape Coral, FL
              34940                Naples-Immokalee-Marco Island, FL




                                              11-9
CSA    CBSA    CSA Title
Code   Code          Component Parts (CBSA’s)

168            Cedar Rapids-Iowa City, IA
       16300          Cedar Rapids, IA
       26980          Iowa City, IA

170            Charleston-Huntington-Ashland, WV-OH-KY
       16620          Charleston, WV
       26580          Huntington-Ashland, WV-KY-OH

174            Chattanooga-Cleveland-Dalton, TN-GA
       16860          Chattanooga, TN-GA
       17420          Cleveland, TN

184            Cleveland-Akron-Canton, OH (part)
       10420          Akron, OH
       15940          Canton-Massillon, OH
       17460          Cleveland-Elyria-Mentor, OH

194            Columbus-Auburn-Opelika, GA-AL
       12220         Auburn-Opelika, AL
       17980         Columbus, GA

206            Dallas-Fort Worth, TX-OK
       19100          Dallas-Fort Worth-Arlington, TX
       43300          Sherman-Dennison, TX

216            Denver-Aurora, CO
       14500         Boulder, CO
       19740         Denver-Aurora-Lakewood, CO
       24540         Greeley, CO

220            Detroit-Warren-Ann Arbor, MI
       11460           Ann Arbor, MI
       19820           Detroit-Warren-Dearborn, MI
       22420           Flint, MI
       33780           Monroe, MI




                              11-
CSA    CBSA    CSA Title
Code   Code          Component Parts (CBSA’s)

238            El Paso-Las Cruses, TX-NM
       21340          El Paso, TX
       29740          Las Cruses, NM

266            Grand Rapids-Wyoming-Muskegon, MI
       24340         Grand Rapids-Wyoming, MI
       26100         Holland-Grand Haven, MI*
       34740         Muskegon-Norton Shores, MI

268            Greensboro--Winston-Salem–High Point, NC
       15500         Burlington, NC
       24660         Greensboro-High Point, NC
       49180         Winston-Salem, NC

273            Greenville-Spartanburg-Anderson, SC
       24860         Greenville-Anderson-Mauldin, SC
       43900         Spartanburg, SC

276            Harrisburg-York-Lebanon, PA
       25420          Harrisburg-Carlisle, PA
       49620          York-Hanover, PA

278            Hartford-West Hartford, CT
       25540          Hartford-West Hartford-East Hartford, CT
       35980          Norwich-New London, CT

304            Johnson City-Kingsport-Bristol, TN-VA (part)
       27740         Johnson City, TN
       28700         Kingsport-Bristol, TN-VA

310            Kalamazoo-Battle Creek-Portage, MI
       12980         Battle Creek, MI
       28020         Kalamazoo-Portage, MI

340            Little Rock-North Little Rock, AR
       30780           Little Rock-North Little Rock-Conway, AR
       38220           Pine Bluff, AR




                              11-
CSA    CBSA    CSA Title
Code   Code          Component Parts (CBSA’s)

348            Los Angeles-Long Beach-Riverside, CA
       31100         Los Angeles-Long Beach-Santa Ana, CA
       37100         Oxnard-Thousand Oaks-Ventura, CA
       40140         Riverside-San Bernardino-Ontario, CA

356            Macon-Warner Robins-Fort Valley, GA
       31420         Macon, GA
       47580         Warner Robins, GA

357            Madison-Janesville-Beloit, WI
       27500         Janesville-Beloit, WI
       31540         Madison, WI

370            Miami-Fort Lauderdale-Port St. Lucie, FL
       33100         Miami-Fort Lauderdale-West Palm Beach, FL
       38940         Port St. Lucie-Fort Pierce, FL

376            Milwaukee-Racine-Waukesha, WI
       33340         Milwaukee-Waukesha-West Allis, WI
       39540         Racine, WI

380            Mobile-Daphne-Fairhope, AL
       19300         Daphne-Fairhope, AL
       33660         Mobile, AL

408            New York-Newark-Bridgeport, NY-NJ-CT-PA
       10900        Allentown-Bethlehem-Easton, PA-NJ
       14860        Bridgeport-Stamford-Norwalk, CT
       20700        East Stroudsburg, PA
       35300        New Haven-Milford, CT
       35620        New York-Newark-Jersey City, NY-NJ-PA
       45940        Trenton, NJ

422            Orlando-Deltona-Daytona Beach, FL
       19660         Deltona-Daytona Beach-Ormond Beach, FL
       36740         Orlando-Kissimmee-Sanford, FL




                              11-
CSA    CBSA    CSA Title
Code   Code          Component Parts (CBSA’s)

428            Philadelphia-Reading-Camden, PA-NJ-DE-MD
       12100          Atlantic City-Hammonton, NJ
       20100          Dover, DE
       37980          Philadelphia-Camden-Wilmington, PA-NJ-DE-MD
       39740          Reading, PA
       47220          Vineland-Bridgeton, NJ

438            Portland-Lewiston-South Portland, ME
       30340          Lewiston-Auburn, ME
       38860          Portland-South Portland, ME

440            Portland-Vancouver-Salem, OR-WA
       38900          Portland-Vancouver-Hillsboro, OR-WA
       41420          Salem, OR

450            Raleigh-Durham-Cary, NC
       20500          Durham-Chapel Hill, NC
       39580          Raleigh, NC

482            Salt Lake City-Provo-Orem, UT
       36260          Ogden-Clearfield, UT
       39340          Provo-Orem, UT
       41620          Salt Lake City, UT

488            San Jose-San Francisco-Oakland, CA
       41860          San Francisco-Oakland-Hayward, CA
       41940          San Jose-Sunnyvale-Santa Clara, CA
       42100          Santa Cruz-Watsonville, CA
       42220          Santa Rosa, CA
       44700          Stockton-Lodi, CA
       46700          Vallejo-Fairfield, CA

500            Seattle-Tacoma-Olympia, WA
       34580           Mount Vernon-Anacortes, WA
       42660           Seattle-Tacoma-Bellevue, WA




                              11-
CSA    CBSA    CSA Title
Code   Code          Component Parts (CBSA’s)

515            South Bend-Elkhart-Mishawaka, IN-MI
       21140          Elkhart-Goshen, IN
       35660          Niles-Benton Harbor, MI
       43780          South Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI

518            Spokane-Spokane Valley-Coeur d’Alene, WA-ID
       17660         Coeur d’Alene, ID
       44060         Spokane-Spokane Valley, WA

546            Visalia-Porterville-Hanford, CA
       25260          Hanford-Corcoran, CA
       47300          Visalia-Porterville, CA

548            Washington-Baltimore-Arlington, DC-MD-VA-WV-PA
       12580         Baltimore-Columbia-Towson, MD
       15680         California-Lexington Park, MD
       16540         Chambersburg-Waynesboro, PA
       25180         Hagerstown-Martinsburg, MD-WV
       47900         Washington-Arlington-Alexandria, DC-VA-MD-WV
       49020         Winchester, VA-WV




                              11-
                               List 3: Individual Principal Cities


Please Note: You must use the CBSA code in combination with the city code to uniquely
identify principal cities. If a county name is provided, you must incorporate the county code
into any algorithm used to tabulate a specific city’s characteristics. The same applies to state
codes for multi-state CBSA’s.


CBSA                   Title
Code                           City                                  GTINDVPC

38060                  Phoenix-Mesa-Scottsdale, AZ
                             Phoenix                                        1
                             Mesa                                           2
                             Scottsdale                                     3
                             Tempe                                          4
                             Glendale                                       5

30780                  Little Rock-North Little Rock-Conway. AR
                               Little Rock                                  1

31080                  Los Angeles-Long Beach-Anaheim, CA
                             Los Angeles County
                                    Los Angeles                             1
                                    Long Beach                              2
                                    Glendale                                3
                                    Pomona                                  4
                                    Torrance                                5
                                    Pasadena                                6
                                    Burbank                                 7
                             Orange County
                                    Santa Ana                               1
                                    Anaheim                                 2
                                    Irvine                                  3
                                    Orange                                  4
                                    Fullerton                               5
                                    Costa Mesa                              6




                                               11-15
CBSA    Title
Code            City                            GTINDVPC

37100   Oxnard-Thousand Oaks-Ventura, CA
              Oxnard                                1
              Thousand Oaks                         2

40140   Riverside-San Bernardino-Ontario, CA
               Riverside                            1
               San Bernardino                       2
               Ontario                              3
               Temecula                             4
               Victorville                          5

40900   Sacramento–Roseville-Arden-Arcade, CA
              Sacramento                            1
              Roseville                             2

41740   San Diego-Carlsbad, CA
               San Diego                            1
               Carlsbad                             2

41860   San Francisco-Oakland-Hayward, CA
               San Francisco                        1
               Alameda County
                      Oakland                       1
                      Fremont                       2
                      Hayward                       3
                      Berkeley                      4

41940   San Jose-Sunnyvale-Santa Clara, CA
               San Jose                             1
               Sunnyvale                            2
               Santa Clara                          3

46700   Vallejo-Fairfield, CA
               Vallejo                              1
               Fairfield                            2




                                11-16
CBSA    Title
Code            City                               GTINDVPC

19740   Denver-Aurora-Lakewood, CO
              Denver                                   1
              Lakewood                                 2

14860   Bridgeport-Stamford-Norwalk, CT
               Bridgeport                              1
               Stamford                                2

25540   Hartford-West Hartford-East Hartford, CT
               Hartford                                1

33100   Miami-Fort Lauderdale-West Palm Beach, FL
               Broward County
                     Fort Lauderdale                   1
               Miami-Dade County
                     Miami                             1
               1
36740   Orlando-Kissimmee-Sanford, FL
               Orlando                                 1

37340   Palm Bay-Melbourne-Titusville, FL
              Palm Bay                                 1

45300   Tampa-St. Petersburg-Clearwater, FL
              St. Petersburg                           1
              Tampa                                    2

12060   Atlanta-Sandy Springs-Roswell, GA
               Atlanta                                 1

16980   Chicago-Naperville-Elgin, IL-IN-WI
              Chicago                                  1
              Naperville                               2
              Joliet                                   3
              Elgin                                    4




                              11-17
CBSA    Title
Code            City                              GTINDVPC

26900   Indianapolis-Carmel-Anderson. IN
               Indianapolis                           1

28140   Kansas City, MO-KS
              Kansas portion
                      Kansas City                     1
                      Overland Park                   2
              Missouri portion
                      Kansas City                     1

35380   New Orleans-Metairie, LA
             New Orleans                              1
             Metairie                                 2

12580   Baltimore-Columbia-Towson. MD
               Baltimore                              1

14460   Boston-Cambridge-Newton, MA-NH
               Massachusetts portion
                     Boston                           1
                     Cambridge                        2

19820   Detroit-Warren-Dearborn, MI
                Wayne County
                      Detroit                         1
                Macomb County
                      Warren                          1

33460   Minneapolis-St. Paul-Bloomington, MN-WI
              Minneapolis                             1
              St. Paul                                2

29820   Las Vegas-Henderson--Paradise, NV
              Las Vegas                               1
              Paradise                                2
              Henderson                               3




                             11-18
CBSA    Title
Code            City                             GTINDVPC

35620   New York-Newark- Jersey City, NY-NJ-PA
             New Jersey portion
                   Newark                            1
                   Jersey City                       2
             New York portion
                   New York                          1

15380   Buffalo-Cheektowaga-Niagara Falls, NY
               Buffalo                               1

16740   Charlotte -Concord-Gastonia, NC-SC
               Charlotte                             1

38900   Portland-Vancouver-Hillsboro, OR-WA
               Portland                              1

34980   Nashville-Davidson—Murfreesboro—Franklin, TN
               Nashville-Davidson                    1

19100   Dallas-Fort Worth-Arlington, TX
               Dallas                                1
               Fort Worth                            2
               Carrollton                            3
               Plano                                 4
               Irving                                5
               Arlington                             6

26420   Houston-The Woodlands-Sugar Land, TX
              Houston                                1

32580   McAllen-Edinburg-Mission, TX
               McAllen                               1
47260   Virginia Beach-Norfolk-Newport News, VA-NC
               Virginia portion
                      Virginia Beach                 1
                      Norfolk                        2
                      Newport News                   3



                             11-19
CBSA    Title
Code            City                         GTINDVPC

47900   Washington-Arlington-Alexandria, DC-VA-MD-WV
              Virginia portion only
                     Arlington                      2

42660   Seattle-Tacoma-Bellevue, WA
                Seattle                            1
                Tacoma                             2
                Bellevue                           3
                Everett                            4

33340   Milwaukee-Waukesha-West Allis, WI
              Milwaukee                            1




                            11-20
                        List 4: FIPS County Codes
Please note that these county codes must be used in conjunction with state codes to
create unique county identifiers as county codes start with 001 in each state. Counties are only
included on this list if the entire county is identified.

FIPS
County                County
Code                  Name                   State

                                            Alabama

003                   Baldwin
081                   Lee
097                   Mobile

                                            Arizona

013                   Maricopa
019                   Pima
021                   Pinal
025                   Yavapai
027                   Yuma

                                           California

001                   Alameda
007                   Butte
019                   Fresno
029                   Kern
031                   Kings
037                   Los Angeles
053                   Monterey
059                   Orange
067                   Sacramento
073                   San Diego
075                   San Francisco
079                   San Luis Obispo
081                   San Mateo


                                              11-21
FIPS
County   County
Code     Name                    State

083      Santa Barbara
087      Santa Cruz
089      Shasta
095      Solano
097      Sonoma
099      Stanislaus
107      Tulare
111      Ventura

                                Colorado

013      Boulder
031      Denver
059      Jefferson
069      Larimer
123      Weld

                             Connecticut

001      Fairfield
005      Litchfield*
009      New Haven
011      New London
015      Windham

                                Delaware

001      Kent
003      New Castle
005      Sussex

                         District of Columbia

001      District of Columbia




                                 11-22
FIPS
County   County
Code     Name           State

                        Florida

005      Bay
009      Brevard
011      Broward
019      Clay
021      Collier
033      Escambia
053      Hernando
057      Hillsborough
069      Lake
071      Lee
083      Marion
085      Martin
086      Miami-Dade
095      Orange
099      Palm Beach
101      Pasco
103      Pinellas
105      Polk
109      St. Johns
111      St. Lucie
113      Santa Rosa

                        Georgia

015      Bartow
045      Carroll
057      Cherokee
063      Clayton
077      Coweta
097      Douglas
113      Fayette
117      Forsythe
135      Gwinnett
139      Hall
151      Henry
223      Paulding


                         11-23
FIPS
County   County
Code     Name          State

                       Hawaii

003      Honolulu

                       Illinois
097      Lake
111      McHenry
119      Madison
163      St. Clair
179      Tazewell

                      Indiana

019      Clark
039      Elkhart
063      Hendricks
081      Johnson
089      Lake
105      Monroe
141      St. Joseph
157      Tippecanoe
                        Iowa

103      Johnson
113      Linn
163      Scott

                       Kansas

091      Johnson
173      Sedgwick

                      Kentucky

015      Boone
067      Fayette
111      Jefferson
117      Kenton


                        11-24
FIPS
County   County
Code     Name                State

                            Louisiana

005      Ascension
033      East Baton Rouge
051      Jefferson
063      Livingston
071      Orleans
073      Ouachita
103      St. Tammany

                             Maine

001      Androscoggin
005      Cumberland
011      Kennebec*
019      Penobscot

                            Maryland

003      Anne Arundel
013      Carroll
015      Cecil
017      Charles
025      Harford
031      Montgomery
033      Prince Georges
037      St. Mary’s
510      Baltimore City




                              11-25
FIPS
County   County
Code     Name            State

                      Massachusetts

001      Barnstable
005      Bristol
013      Hampden
015      Hampshire
017      Middlesex
023      Plymouth
025      Suffolk
027      Worcester

                        Michigan

005      Allegan*
021      Berrien
025      Calhoun
049      Genesee
075      Jackson
081      Kent
093      Livingston
099      Macomb
115      Monroe
121      Muskegon
125      Oakland
145      Saginaw
161      Washtenaw
163      Wayne

                       Minnesota

003      Anoka
123      Ramsey
139      Scott
163      Washington
171      Wright




                          11-26
FIPS
County   County
Code     Name              State

                          Missouri

071      Franklin
099      Jefferson
189      St. Louis

                          Montana

111      Yellowstone

                          Nebraska

055      Douglas

                           Nevada

003      Clark

                        New Hampshire

011      Hillsborough
013      Merrimack*
015      Rockingham
017      Strafford

                         New Jersey

003      Bergen
005      Burlington
007      Camden
011      Cumberland
013      Essex
017      Hudson
019      Hunterdon
021      Mercer
023      Middlesex
027      Morris
031      Passaic


                            11-27
FIPS
County   County
Code     Name             State

035      Somerset
037      Sussex
039      Union

                        New Mexico

001      Bernalillo
013      Dona Ana
045      San Juan
049      Santa Fe

                         New York

005      Bronx
045      Jefferson
047      Kings
055      Monroe
059      Nassau
061      New York
067      Onondaga
069      Ontario
071      Orange
081      Queens
085      Richmond
087      Rockland
091      Saratoga
103      Suffolk
119      Westchester

                       North Carolina

001      Alamance
021      Buncombe
057      Davidson
067      Forsyth
119      Mecklenburg
133      Onslow
147      Pitt


                           11-28
FIPS
County   County
Code     Name           State

155      Robeson*
159      Rowan
179      Union
191      Wayne

                         Ohio

025      Clermont
057      Greene
085      Lake
089      Licking
095      Lucas
103      Medina
109      Miami
113      Montgomery
133      Portage
153      Summit

                        Oregon

017      Deschutes
029      Jackson
039      Lane

                      Pennsylvania

003      Allegheny
007      Beaver
011      Berks
017      Bucks
019      Butler
021      Cambria
029      Chester
043      Dauphin
045      Delaware
049      Erie
055      Franklin
071      Lancaster


                         11-29
FIPS
County   County
Code     Name                 State

081      Lycoming
085      Mercer
089      Monroe
091      Montgomery
101      Philadelphia
107      Schuylkill*
125      Washington
129      Westmoreland
133      York

                          South Carolina

041      Florence
051      Horry
083      Spartanburg
091      York

                        Tennessee

009      Blount
093      Knox
125      Montgomery
165      Sumner
189      Wilson

                              Texas

041      Brazos
061      Cameron
135      Ector
139      Ellis
181      Grayson
183      Gregg
215      Hidalgo
251      Johnson
303      Lubbock
309      McLennan
423      Smith


                               11-30
FIPS
County                County
Code                  Name                   State

441                   Taylor
479                   Webb
485                   Wichita
                                              Utah

053                   Washington

                                            Virginia

013                   Arlington
041                   Chesterfield
087                   Henrico
107                   Loudoun
153                   Prince William
177                   Spotsylvania
179                   Stafford
550                   Chesapeake City
700                   Newport News City
710                   Norfolk City
760                   Richmond City
810                   Virginia Beach City

                                          Washington

057                   Skagit

                                         West Virginia

039                   Kanawha

                                            Wisconsin

059                   Kenosha
073                   Marathon
101                   Racine
105                   Rock
139                   Winnebago

* Counties marked with an asterisk (*) are also single county Micropolitan Statistical Areas.

                                              11-31
They are not otherwise identified on the files. A list of such areas on the files is as follows:

CBSA                                                          County                 County
Code           Title                                          Name                   Code

12300          Augusta-Waterville, ME                         Kennebec               005
18180          Concord, NH                                    Merrimack              011
26090          Holland, MI                                    Allegan                005
31300          Lumberton, NC                                  Robeson                155
39060          Pottsville, PA                                 Schuylkill             107
45860          Torrington, CT                                 Litchfield             005




                                               11-32
                                       ATTACHMENT 12

                                  Dynamic Topcoding of Usual
                                       Hourly Earnings


The Census Bureau has introduced a dynamic topcode, implemented monthly, with topcoding
applied to the top 3 percent of hourly earnings reported. This method results in fewer cases
being topcoded compared to the previous method which applied topcoding based on the
individual’s usual hours worked variable. For individuals whose earnings are topcoded, the
earnings variable contains the weighted average of the top 3% and not a cutoff value as has
been done in past years. PTERNHLY, PTERNH1O, PTERNH2, and PTERNH1C are the hourly
reporting variables. Below is an example of this process using fake data.


 Hourly Wages     Cumulative Percent    Topcoding (Weighted
                                        Average of Top 3%)

 2                0.15                  2
 2.15             0.26                  2.15
 3.50             0.90                  3.50
 .                .                     .
 .                .                     .
 .                .                     .
 46.5             96.90                 46.5
 47               96.93                 47
 49.5             97.06                 64.20
 50               97.46                 64.20
 51               97.55                 64.20
 .                                      .
 .                                      .
 .                                      .
 65               99.40                 64.20
 68               99.45                 64.20
 70               99.60                 64.20
 75               99.75                 64.20
 85               99.80                 64.20
 90               100.00                64.20


Furthermore, values not topcoded as above, will be rounded based on the criteria below.


 Usual Hourly Earning as Reported               Rounded value on Public Use File
 $00.01 - $00.07                                $00.05
 $00.08 - $29.99                                Nearest $00.05
 $30.00 - $49.99                                Nearest $00.25
 $50.00 +                                       Nearest $00.50 until topcoded
                                        ATTACHMENT 12a

                               Topcoding of Usual Hourly Earnings

       This variable will be topcoded based on an individual’s usual hours worked variable, if the
individual’s edited usual weekly earnings variable is $999. The topcode is computed such that the
product of usual hours times usual hourly wage does not exceed an annualized wage of $150,000
($2,885.00 per week). Below is a list of the appropriate topcode.

 Hours        Topcode                Hours        Topcode                   Hours        Topcode

    1           None                   34            $84.85                   67          $43.06
    2           None                   35            $82.43                   68          $42.43
    3           None                   36            $80.14                   69          $41.81
    4           None                   37            $77.97                   70          $41.21
    5           None                   38            $75.92                   71          $40.63
    6           None                   39            $73.97                   72          $40.07
    7           None                   40            $72.13                   73          $39.52
    8           None                   41            $70.37                   74          $38.99
    9           None                   42            $68.69                   75          $38.47
   10           None                   43            $67.09                   76          $37.96
   11           None                   44            $65.57                   77          $37.47
   12           None                   45            $64.11                   78          $36.99
   13           None                   46            $62.72                   79          $36.52
   14           None                   47            $61.38                   80          $36.06
   15           None                   48            $60.10                   81          $35.62
   16           None                   49            $58.88                   82          $35.18
   17           None                   50            $57.70                   83          $34.76
   18           None                   51            $56.57                   84          $34.35
   19           None                   52            $55.48                   85          $33.94
   20           None                   53            $54.43                   86          $33.55
   21           None                   54            $53.43                   87          $33.16
   22           None                   55            $52.45                   88          $32.78
   23           None                   56            $51.52                   89          $32.42
   24           None                   57            $50.61                   90          $32.06
   25           None                   58            $49.74                   91          $31.70
   26           None                   59            $48.90                   92          $31.36
   27           None                   60            $48.08                   93          $31.02
   28           None                   61            $47.30                   94          $30.69
   29          $99.48                  62            $46.53                   95          $30.37
   30          $96.17                  63            $45.79                   96          $30.05
   31          $93.06                  64            $45.08                   97          $29.74
   32          $90.16                  65            $44.38                   98          $29.44
   33          $87.42                  66            $43.71                   99          $29.14




                                              12-1
                                ATTACHMENT 13

                    CURRENT POPULATION SURVEY
                    Selected Unweighted Tallies from the
           CPS September 2023 Civic Engagement and Volunteering
                               Supplement

Item      Value                                                   Tallies

PESWP1A
           <1>    Strongly agree                                    9391
           <2>    Agree                                             9621
           <3>    Disagree                                           614
           <4>    Strongly disagree                                  167
           <-2>                                                     109
           <-3>                                                     607
           <-9>                                                       8

PESWP1B
           <1>    Strongly agree                                    8980
           <2>    Agree                                             9053
           <3>    Disagree                                          1371
           <4>    Strongly disagree                                  202
           <-2>                                                     278
           <-3>                                                     565
           <-9>                                                      68


PESWP1C
           <1>    Strongly agree                                    1694
           <2>    Agree                                             6609
           <3>    Disagree                                          8944
           <4>    Strongly disagree                                 2445
           <-2>                                                     152
           <-3>                                                     582
           <-9>                                                      91

PESWP1D
           <1>    Strongly agree                                    5853
           <2>    Agree                                            10826
           <3>    Disagree                                          2663
           <4>    Strongly disagree                                  344
           <-2>                                                     146
           <-3>                                                     584
           <-9>                                                     101
                                      13-1
PESWP2
         <1>    Yes                             10901
         <2>    No                              15028
         <-2>                                    481
         <-3>                                    877
         <-9>                                    122

PES1
         <1>    Basically every day             25557
         <2>    A few times a week              12410
         <3>    A few times a month              4585
         <4>    Once a month                     1152
         <5>    Less than once a month            913
         <6>    Not at all                       1208
         <-2>                                    177
         <-3>                                   1592
         <-9>                                    171

PES2
         <1>    Basically every day              5371
         <2>    A few times a week               9404
         <3>    A few times a month              7560
         <4>    Once a month                     4066
         <5>    Less than once a month           4950
         <6>    Not at all                      13985
         <-2>                                    454
         <-3>                                   1717
         <-9>                                    258
PES4
         <1>    Basically every day              4040
         <2>    A few times a week               9894
         <3>    A few times a month              9116
         <4>    Once a month                     4955
         <5>    Less than once a month           5710
         <6>    Not at all                      11837
         <-2>                                    265
         <-3>                                   1648
         <-9>                                    300




                                         13-2
PES5
       <1>    Basically every day                764
       <2>    A few times a week                2770
       <3>    A few times a month               3380
       <4>    Once a month                      2870
       <5>    Less than once a month            4723
       <6>    Not at all                       30804
       <-2>                                     413
       <-3>                                    1730
       <-9>                                     311

PES6
       <1>    Basically every day               1280
       <2>    A few times a week                3990
       <3>    A few times a month               6723
       <4>    Once a month                      5784
       <5>    Less than once a month            8746
       <6>    Not at all                       18954
       <-2>                                     283
       <-3>                                    1664
       <-9>                                     341

PES7
       <1>    Yes                             10527
       <2>    No                              34987
       <-2>                                     235
       <-3>                                    1652
       <-9>                                     364

PES9
       <1>    Basically every day               694
       <2>    A few times a week               1350
       <3>    A few times a month              1423
       <4>    Once a month                     1279
       <5>    Less than once a month           2952
       <6>    Not at all                      37526
       <-2>                                    406
       <-3>                                   1757
       <-9>                                    378




                                       13-3
PES10
        <1>    Basically every day              21930
        <2>    A few times a week                8752
        <3>    A few times a month               3862
        <4>    Once a month                      1560
        <5>    Less than once a month            1891
        <6>    Not at all                        7292
        <-2>                                     370
        <-3>                                    1720
        <-9>                                     388

PES11
        <1>    Yes                             24941
        <2>    No                              18333
        <3>    Not eligible to vote             1805
        <-2>                                     485
        <-3>                                    1797
        <-9>                                     404
PES12
        <1>    Yes                              4811
        <2>    No                              40627
        <-2>                                     250
        <-3>                                    1661
        <-9>                                     416

PES13
        <1>    Yes                              4865
        <2>    No                              40518
        <-2>                                     278
        <-3>                                    1678
        <-9>                                     426

PES14
        <1>    Yes                              8871
        <2>    No                              36366
        <-2>                                     356
        <-3>                                    1739
        <-9>                                     433

PES15
        <1>    Yes                             12845
        <2>    No                              32518
        <-2>                                     282
        <-3>                                    1679
        <-9>                                     441
                                        13-4
PES15a
         <0>                                   34
         <1>    1 org.                       5636
         <2>    2 org.                       3375
         <3>    3 org.                       1947
         <4>    4 org.                        780
         <5>    5 org.                        523
         <6>    6 org.                        192
         <7>    7 org.                        282
         <-2>                                  93
         <-3>                                  16
         <-9>                                   1

PES16
         <1>    Yes                         12478
         <2>    No                          32957
         <-2>                                 250
         <-3>                                1621
         <-9>                                 459

PES16a
         <1>    Yes                          2034
         <2>    No                          30944
         <-2>                                 209
         <-3>                                  15
         <-9>                                   5
PES16d
         <1>    Basically every day           466
         <2>    A few times a week           2421
         <3>    A few times a month          3969
         <4>    Once a month                 3082
         <5>    Less than once a month       4384
         <6>    Not at all                    122
         <-2>                                  55
         <-3>                                   8
         <-9>                                   5




                                     13-5
PES16f

           <1>    All volunteering is in person                    11600
           <2>    Volunteering is more in-person than online        1157
           <3>    Volunteering is evenly split between in-person     945
                  and online
           <4>    Volunteering is more online than in-person         419
           <5>    All volunteering is online                         203
           <-2>                                                       45
           <-3>                                                       10
           <-9>                                                        6

PES17
           <1>    Yes                                               3837
           <2>    No                                               41272
           <-2>                                                      341
           <-3>                                                     1839
           <-9>                                                      476



PES18
           <1>    Yes                                              24185
           <2>    No                                               20932
           <-2>                                                      370
           <-3>                                                     1798
           <-9>                                                      480

PRSUPVOL
           <1>    Yes                                              14512
           <2>    No                                               33253

PRSUPINT
           <1>    Yes                                              47765
           <2>    No                                               33414




                                        13-6
                                 ATTACHMENT 14

                       COUNTRIES AND AREAS OF THE WORLD

                              Current Population Survey

                                 Starting May 2012



Code   Name                                       Code    Name

057    United States                               158    Armenia
060    American Samoa                              159    Azerbaijan
066    Guam                                        160    Belarus
069    Northern Marianas                           161    Georgia
073    Puerto Rico                                 162    Moldova
078    U. S. Virgin Islands                        163    Russia
100    Albania                                     164    Ukraine
102    Austria                                     165    USSR
103    Belgium                                     166    Europe, not specified
104    Bulgaria                                    168    Montenegro
105    Czechoslovakia                              200    Afghanistan
106    Denmark                                     202    Bangladesh
108    Finland                                     203    Bhutan
109    France                                      205    Myanmar (Burma)
110    Germany                                     206    Cambodia
116    Greece                                      207    China
117    Hungary                                     209    Hong Kong
118    Iceland                                     210    India
119    Ireland                                     211    Indonesia
120    Italy                                       212    Iran
126    Netherlands                                 213    Iraq
127    Norway                                      214    Israel
128    Poland                                      215    Japan
129    Portugal                                    216    Jordan
130    Azores                                      217    Korea
132    Romania                                     218    Kazakhstan
134    Spain                                       220    South Korea
136    Sweden                                      222    Kuwait
137    Switzerland                                 223    Laos
138    United Kingdom                              224    Lebanon
139    England                                     226    Malaysia
140    Scotland                                    228    Mongolia
142    Northern Ireland                            229    Nepal
147    Yugoslavia                                  231    Pakistan
148    Czech Republic                              233    Philippines
149    Slovakia                                    235    Saudi Arabia
150    Bosnia & Herzegovina                        236    Singapore
151    Croatia                                     238    Sri Lanka
152    Macedonia                                   239    Syria
154    Serbia                                      240    Taiwan
155    Estonia                                     242    Thailand
156    Latvia                                      243    Turkey
157    Lithuania                                   245    United Arab Emirates

                                        14-1
Code   Name                                    Code   Name

246    Uzbekistan                              373     Venezuela
247    Vietnam                                 374      South America, not specified
248    Yemen                                   399    Americas, not specified
249    Asia, not specified                     400    Algeria
300    Bermuda                                 407    Cameroon
301    Canada                                  408    Cape Verde
303    Mexico                                  412    Congo
310    Belize                                  414    Egypt
311    Costa Rica                              416    Ethiopia
312    El Salvador                             417    Eritrea
313    Guatemala                               421    Ghana
314    Honduras                                423    Guinea
315    Nicaragua                               425    Ivory Coast
316    Panama                                  427    Kenya
321    Antigua and Barbuda                     429    Liberia
323    Bahamas                                 430    Libya
324    Barbados                                436    Morocco
327    Cuba                                    440    Nigeria
328    Dominica                                444    Senegal
329    Dominican Republic                      447    Sierra Leone
330    Grenada                                 448    Somalia
332    Haiti                                   449    South Africa
333    Jamaica                                 451    Sudan
338    St. Kitts--Nevis                        453    Tanzania
339    St. Lucia                               454    Togo
340    St. Vincent and the Grenadines          457    Uganda
341    Trinidad and Tobago                     459    Zaire
343    West Indies, not specified              460    Zambia
360    Argentina                               461    Zimbabwe
361    Bolivia                                 462    Africa, not specified
362    Brazil                                  501    Australia
363    Chile                                   508    Fiji
364    Columbia                                511    Marshall Islands
365    Ecuador                                 512    Micronesia
368    Guyana                                  515    New Zealand
369    Paraguay                                523    Tonga
370    Peru                                    527    Samoa
372    Uruguay                                 555    Elsewhere




                                        14-2
                                       ATTACHMENT 15

                                     ALLOCATION FLAGS

                                  Current Population Survey


For every edited item, there is a corresponding allocation flag with the prefix "PX". The last six
characters of the names are the same. For example, PXMLR is the allocation flag for PEMLR.
All allocation flags have the following list of possible values.




               00 VALUE - NO CHANGE
               01 BLANK - NO CHANGE
               02 DON'T KNOW - NO CHANGE
               03 REFUSED - NO CHANGE
               10 VALUE TO VALUE
               11 BLANK TO VALUE
               12 DON'T KNOW TO VALUE
               13 REFUSED TO VALUE
               20 VALUE TO LONGITUDINAL VALUE
               21 BLANK TO LONGITUDINAL VALUE
               22 DON'T KNOW TO LONGITUDINAL VALUE
               23 REFUSED TO LONGITUDINAL VALUE
               30 VALUE TO ALLOCATED VALUE LONG.
               31 BLANK TO ALLOCATED VALUE LONG.
               32 DON'T KNOW TO ALLOCATED VALUE LONG.
               33 REFUSED TO ALLOCATED VALUE LONG.
               40 VALUE TO ALLOCATED VALUE
               41 BLANK TO ALLOCATED VALUE
               42 DON'T KNOW TO ALLOCATED VALUE
               43 REFUSED TO ALLOCATED VALUE
               50 VALUE TO BLANK
               52 DON'T KNOW TO BLANK
               53 REFUSED TO BLANK




                                                15-1
                                                                  Attachment 16

           Source of the Data and Accuracy of the Estimates for the
      September 2023 Current Population Survey Microdata File on Civic
                        Engagement and Volunteering

                                                               Table of Contents

SOURCE OF THE DATA ..........................................................................................................................1
     Basic CPS........................................................................................................................................................ 1
     September 2023 Supplement ............................................................................................................... 2
     Estimation Procedure .............................................................................................................................. 2

ACCURACY OF THE ESTIMATES .........................................................................................................3
     Sampling Error ............................................................................................................................................ 3
     Nonsampling Error ................................................................................................................................... 3
     Nonresponse ................................................................................................................................................ 4
     Undercoverage ............................................................................................................................................ 5
     Comparability of Data .............................................................................................................................. 5
     A Nonsampling Error Warning ............................................................................................................ 6
     Standard Errors and Their Use ............................................................................................................ 7
     Estimating Standard Errors .................................................................................................................. 7
     Generalized Variance Parameters ...................................................................................................... 8
     Standard Errors of Estimated Numbers .......................................................................................... 9
     Standard Errors of Estimated Percentages ..................................................................................10
     Standard Errors of Estimated Differences ....................................................................................11
     Standard Errors of Quarterly or Yearly Averages .....................................................................12
     Technical Assistance...............................................................................................................................12

REFERENCES.......................................................................................................................................... 14


                                                                            Tables

Table 1. Current Population Survey Coverage Ratios: September 2023.......................................... 5
Table 2. Estimation Groups of Interest and Generalized Variance Parameters ........................... 9
Table 3. Illustration of Standard Errors of Estimated Numbers ........................................................10
Table 4. Illustration of Standard Errors of Estimated Percentages ..................................................11
Table 5. Illustration of Standard Errors of Estimated Differences....................................................12
Table 6. Parameters for Computation of Standard Errors for Civic Engagement and
       Volunteering Characteristics: September 2023 .........................................................................13
         Source of the Data and Accuracy of the Estimates for the
    September 2023 Current Population Survey Microdata File on Civic
                      Engagement and Volunteering


SOURCE OF THE DATA
The data in this microdata file are from the September 2023 Current Population Survey
(CPS). The U.S. Census Bureau conducts the CPS every month, although this file has only
September data. The September survey uses two sets of questions, the basic CPS, and a set
of supplemental questions. The CPS, sponsored jointly by the Census Bureau and the U.S.
Bureau of Labor Statistics, is the country’s primary source of labor force statistics for the
civilian noninstitutionalized population. The Corporation for National and Community
Service sponsors the supplemental questions for September.

Basic CPS. The monthly CPS collects primarily labor force data about the civilian
noninstitutionalized population living in the United States. The institutionalized
population, which is excluded from the universe, consists primarily of the population in
correctional institutions and nursing homes (98 percent of the 3.8 million institutionalized
people in the 2020 Census). Starting in August 2017, college and university dormitories
were also excluded from the universe because most of the residents had usual residences
elsewhere. Interviewers ask questions concerning labor force participation of each
member 15 years old and older in sample households. Typically, the week containing the
nineteenth of the month is the interview week. The week containing the twelfth is the
reference week (i.e., the week about which the labor force questions are asked).

The CPS uses a multistage probability sample based on the results of the decennial census,
with coverage in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. The sample is continually
updated to account for new residential construction. When files from the most recent
decennial census become available, the Census Bureau gradually introduces a new sample
design for the CPS.

Every ten years, the CPS first-stage sample is redesigned1 reflecting changes based on the
most recent decennial census. In the first stage of the sampling process, primary sampling
units (PSUs)2 were selected for sample. In the 2010 sample design, the United States was
divided into 1,987 PSUs. These PSUs were then grouped into 852 strata. Within each
stratum, a single PSU was chosen for the sample, with its probability of selection
proportional to its population as of the most recent decennial census. In the case of strata
consisting of only one PSU, the PSU was chosen with certainty.

Approximately 69,000 sampled addresses were selected from the sampling frame in
September. Based on eligibility criteria, seven percent of these sampled addresses were

1   For detailed information on the 2010 sample redesign, please reference Bureau of Labor Statistics
    (2014).
2   The PSUs correspond to substate areas (i.e., counties or groups of counties) that are geographically
    contiguous.
                                                                                                             2

sent directly to computer-assisted telephone interviewing (CATI). The remaining sampled
addresses were assigned to interviewers for computer-assisted personal interviewing
(CAPI).3 Of all addresses in sample, about 60,000 were determined to be eligible for
interview. Interviewers obtained interviews at about 42,000 of the housing units at these
addresses. Noninterviews occur when the occupants are not found at home after repeated
calls or are unavailable for some other reason.4

September 2023 Supplement. In September 2023, in addition to the basic CPS questions,
interviewers asked supplementary questions of household members 16 years and older on
civic engagement and volunteering.

In 2023, the Civic Engagement and Volunteering supplement released two sets of weights,
nonresponse, and self-response. Throughout this source and accuracy statement,
parameters and illustration estimates are based on the nonresponse weights.

Estimation Procedure. This survey’s estimation procedure adjusts weighted sample
results to agree with independently derived population controls of the civilian
noninstitutionalized population of the United States, each state, and the District of
Columbia. These population controls5 are prepared monthly as part of the Census Bureau’s
Population Estimates Program.

The population controls for the nation are distributed by demographic characteristics in
two ways:

        •   Age, sex, and race (White alone, Black alone, and all other groups combined).
        •   Age, sex, and Hispanic origin.

The population controls for the states are distributed by:

        •   Race (Black alone and all other race groups combined).
        •   Age (0-15, 16-44, and 45 and over).
        •   Sex.

The independent estimates by age, sex, race, and Hispanic origin, and for states by selected
age groups and broad race categories, are developed using the basic demographic
accounting formula whereby the population from the 2020 Census data6 is updated using

3   For further information on CATI and CAPI and the eligibility criteria, please reference U.S. Census Bureau
    (2019).
4
    Counts and estimates throughout this source and accuracy statement are rounded according to
    Disclosure Review Board rounding rules.
5   For additional information on population controls, including details on the demographic characteristics
    used and net international components, please refer to Chapters 1-3 and Appendix: History of the
    Current Population Survey of U.S. Census Bureau (2019).
6
    In recent decades, the decennial census has usually provided all the data necessary to produce the
    population base used in the population controls. However, changes in disclosure avoidance practices and
    delays in the 2020 Census necessitated changes to the data sources that produce the base population for
                                                                                                          3

data on the components of population change (births, deaths, and net international
migration) with net internal migration as an additional component in the state population
controls.

The net international migration component of the population controls includes:

       •   Net international migration of the foreign born;
       •   Net migration between the United States and Puerto Rico;
       •   Net migration of natives to and from the United States; and
       •   Net movement of the Armed Forces population to and from the United States.

Because the latest available information on these components lags behind the survey date,
it is necessary to make short-term projections of these components to develop the estimate
for the survey date.


ACCURACY OF THE ESTIMATES
A sample survey estimate has two types of error: sampling and nonsampling. The accuracy
of an estimate depends on both types of error. The nature of the sampling error is known
given the survey design; the full extent of the nonsampling error is unknown.

Sampling Error. Since the CPS estimates come from a sample, they may differ from figures
from an enumeration of the entire population using the same questionnaires, instructions,
and enumerators. For a given estimator, the difference between an estimate based on a
sample and the estimate that would result if the sample were to include the entire
population is known as sampling error. Standard errors, as calculated by methods
described in “Standard Errors and Their Use,” are primarily measures of the magnitude of
sampling error. However, the estimation of standard errors may include some nonsampling
error.

Nonsampling Error. For a given estimator, the difference between the estimate that would
result if the sample were to include the entire population and the true population value
being estimated is known as nonsampling error. There are several sources of nonsampling
error that may occur during the development or execution of the survey. It can occur
because of circumstances created by the interviewer, the respondent, the survey
instrument, or the way the data are collected and processed. Some nonsampling errors, and
examples of each, include:

       •   Measurement error: The interviewer records the wrong answer, the respondent
           provides incorrect information, the respondent estimates the requested
           information, or an unclear survey question is misunderstood by the respondent.


   the Vintage 2021 population estimates. The updated population controls use a Blended Base that draws
   on the 2020 Census, 2020 Demographic Analysis Estimates, and Vintage 2020 Postcensal Population
   Estimates. More information on this methodology can be found at U.S. Census Bureau (2021).
                                                                                               4

       •   Coverage error: Some individuals who should have been included in the survey
           frame were missed.
       •   Nonresponse error: Responses are not collected from all those in the sample or
           the respondent is unwilling to provide information.
       •   Imputation error: Values are estimated imprecisely for missing data.
       •   Processing error: Forms may be lost, data may be incorrectly keyed, coded, or
           recoded, etc.

To minimize these errors, the Census Bureau applies quality control procedures during all
stages of the production process including the design of the survey, the wording of
questions, the review of the work of interviewers and coders, and the statistical review of
reports.

Two types of nonsampling error that can be examined to a limited extent are nonresponse
and undercoverage.

Nonresponse. The effect of nonresponse cannot be measured directly, but one indication
of its potential effect is the nonresponse rate. For the September 2023 basic CPS, the
household-level unweighted nonresponse rate was 29.9 percent. The person-level
unweighted nonresponse rate for the Civic Engagement and Volunteering supplement was
an additional 29.5 percent.

Since the basic CPS nonresponse rate is a household-level rate and the Civic Engagement
and Volunteering supplement nonresponse rate is a person-level rate, we cannot combine
these rates to derive an overall nonresponse rate. Nonresponding households may have
more or fewer persons than interviewed ones, so combining these rates may lead to an
under- or overestimate of the true overall nonresponse rate for persons for the Civic
Engagement and Volunteering supplement.

Responses are made up of complete interviews and sufficient partial interviews. A
sufficient partial interview is an incomplete interview in which the household or person
answered enough of the questionnaire for the supplement sponsor to consider the
interview complete. The remaining supplement questions may have been edited or
imputed to fill in missing values. Insufficient partial interviews are considered to be
nonrespondents. Refer to the supplement overview attachment in the technical
documentation for the specific questions deemed critical by the sponsor as necessary to
answer in order to be considered a sufficient partial interview.

As a result of sufficient partial interviews being considered responses, individual
items/questions have their own response and refusal rates. As part of the nonsampling
error analysis, the item response rates, item refusal rates, and edits are reviewed. For the
Civic Engagement and Volunteering supplement, the unweighted item refusal rates range
from 0.05 percent to 3.85 percent. The unweighted item nonresponse rates range from
0.42 percent to 5.62 percent.
                                                                                                               5

Undercoverage. The concept of coverage with a survey sampling process is defined as the
extent to which the total population that could be selected for sample “covers” the survey’s
target population. Missed housing units and missed people within sample households
create undercoverage in the CPS. Overall CPS undercoverage for September 2023 is
estimated to be about ten percent. CPS coverage varies with age, sex, and race. Generally,
coverage is higher for females than for males and higher for non-Blacks than for Blacks.
This differential coverage is a general problem for most household-based surveys.

The CPS weighting procedure mitigates bias from undercoverage, but biases may still be
present when people who are missed by the survey differ from those interviewed in ways
other than age, race, sex, Hispanic origin, and state of residence. How this weighting
procedure affects other variables in the survey is not precisely known. All of these
considerations affect comparisons across different surveys or data sources.

A common measure of survey coverage is the coverage ratio, calculated as the estimated
population before poststratification divided by the independent population control. Table 1
shows September 2023 CPS coverage ratios by age and sex for certain race and Hispanic
groups. The CPS coverage ratios can exhibit some variability from month to month.

          Table 1. Current Population Survey Coverage Ratios: September 2023
                  Total               White alone        Black alone       Residual raceA        HispanicB
 Age    All
                  Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female
group people
 0-15 0.85        0.86      0.84      0.91     0.88      0.68      0.67     0.80      0.78     0.84         0.81
16-19 0.84        0.85      0.84      0.90     0.88      0.69      0.70     0.76      0.75     0.87         0.88
20-24 0.76        0.78      0.75      0.79     0.79      0.64      0.59     0.88      0.68     0.83         0.83
25-34 0.82        0.81      0.83      0.85     0.86      0.63      0.67     0.82      0.85     0.80         0.86
35-44 0.90        0.87      0.93      0.90     0.97      0.69      0.76     0.87      0.86     0.81         0.96
45-54 0.91        0.89      0.93      0.91     0.96      0.75      0.82     0.89      0.89     0.87         0.95
55-64 0.94        0.91      0.97      0.93     1.00      0.80      0.87     0.90      0.86     0.84         0.96
 65+   1.08       1.07      1.08      1.08     1.10      1.07      1.07     0.87      0.90     1.02         0.99
 15+   0.92       0.90      0.93      0.93     0.97      0.75      0.80     0.86      0.84     0.85         0.92
  0+   0.90       0.89      0.92      0.92     0.96      0.74      0.78     0.84      0.83     0.85         0.89
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Current Population Survey, September 2023.
A   The Residual race group includes cases indicating a single race other than White or Black, and cases
    indicating two or more races.
B   Hispanics may be any race.
Note: For a more detailed discussion on the use of parameters for race and ethnicity, please refer to the
“Generalized Variance Parameters” section.

Comparability of Data. Data obtained from the CPS and other sources are not entirely
comparable. This is due to differences in interviewer training and experience and in
differing survey processes.7 These differences are examples of nonsampling variability not


7   Survey processes include, but are not limited to, question wording, universe, sampling frame, interview
    modes, and weighting.
                                                                                              6

reflected in the standard errors. Therefore, caution should be used when comparing results
from different sources.

Data users should be careful when comparing the data from this microdata file, which
reflects 2020 Census-based controls8, with microdata files which reflect 2010 Census-
based controls. Ideally, the same population controls should be used when comparing any
estimates. In reality, the use of the same population controls is not practical when
comparing trend data over a period of 10 to 20 years. Thus, when it is necessary to
combine or compare data based on different controls or different designs, data users
should be aware that changes in weighting controls or weighting procedures can create
small differences between estimates. The discussion following includes information on
comparing estimates derived from different populations or different sample designs.

Microdata files from previous years reflect the latest available census-based controls.
Although the most recent change in population controls had relatively little impact on
summary measures such as averages, medians, and percentage distributions, it did have a
significant impact on levels. For example, use of 2020 Census-based controls results in
about a 0.7 percent increase from the 2010 Census-based controls in the civilian
noninstitutionalized population. Thus, estimates of levels for data collected in 2012 and
later years will differ from those for earlier years by more than what could be attributed to
actual changes in the population. These differences could be disproportionately greater for
certain population subgroups than for the total population.

Users should also exercise caution because of changes caused by the phase-in of the 2010
Census files (refer to “Basic CPS”).9 During this time period, CPS data were collected from
sample designs based on different censuses. Two features of the new CPS design have the
potential of affecting estimates: (1) the temporary disruption of the rotation pattern from
August 2014 through June 2015 for a comparatively small portion of the sample and (2)
the change in sample areas. Most of the known effect on estimates during and after the
sample redesign will be the result of changing from 2000 to 2010 geographic definitions.
Research has shown that the national-level estimates of the metropolitan and
nonmetropolitan populations should not change appreciably because of the new sample
design. However, users should still exercise caution when comparing metropolitan and
nonmetropolitan estimates across years with a design change, especially at the state level.

Caution should also be used when comparing Hispanic estimates over time. No
independent population control totals for people of Hispanic origin were used before 1985.

A Nonsampling Error Warning. Since the full extent of the nonsampling error is
unknown, one should be particularly careful when interpreting results based on small
differences between estimates. The Census Bureau recommends that data users
incorporate information about nonsampling errors into their analyses, as nonsampling
error could impact the conclusions drawn from the results. Caution should also be used
8
    Refer to Footnote 6.
9   The phase-in process using the 2010 Census files began April 2014.
                                                                                               7

when interpreting results based on a relatively small number of cases. Summary measures
(such as medians and percentage distributions) probably do not reveal useful information
when computed on a subpopulation smaller than 75,000.

For additional information on nonsampling error, including the possible impact on CPS
data, when known, refer to U.S. Census Bureau (2019) and Brooks & Bailar (1978).

Standard Errors and Their Use. A sample estimate and its standard error enable one to
construct a confidence interval. A confidence interval is a range about a given estimate that
has a specified probability of containing the average result of all possible samples. For
example, if all possible samples were surveyed under essentially the same general
conditions and using the same sample design, and if an estimate and its standard error
were calculated from each sample, then approximately 90 percent of the intervals from
1.645 standard errors below the estimate to 1.645 standard errors above the estimate
would include the average result of all possible samples.

A particular confidence interval may or may not contain the average estimate derived from
all possible samples, but one can say with the specified confidence that the interval
includes the average estimate calculated from all possible samples.
Standard errors may also be used to perform hypothesis testing, a procedure for
distinguishing between population parameters using sample estimates. The most common
type of hypothesis is that the population parameters are different. An example of this
would be comparing the percentage of men who were part-time workers to the percentage
of women who were part-time workers.

Tests may be performed at various levels of significance. A significance level is the
probability of concluding that the characteristics are different when, in fact, they are the
same. For example, to conclude that two characteristics are different at the 0.10 level of
significance, the absolute value of the estimated difference between characteristics must be
greater than or equal to 1.645 times the standard error of the difference.

The Census Bureau uses 90-percent confidence intervals and 0.10 levels of significance to
determine statistical validity. Consult standard statistical textbooks for alternative criteria.

Estimating Standard Errors. The Census Bureau uses replication methods to estimate the
standard errors of CPS and Civic Engagement and Volunteering estimates. These methods
primarily measure the magnitude of sampling error. However, they do measure some
effects of nonsampling error as well. They do not measure systematic biases in the data
associated with nonsampling error. Bias is the average over all possible samples of the
differences between the sample estimates and the true value.

There are two ways to calculate standard errors for the CPS microdata file on Civic
Engagement and Volunteering.

       1. Direct estimates created from replicate weighting methods.
                                                                                             8

       2. Generalized variance estimates created from generalized variance function
          (GVF) parameters a and b.

While replicate weighting methods provide the most accurate variance estimates, this
approach requires more computing resources and more expertise on the part of the user.
The GVF parameters provide a method of balancing accuracy with resource usage as well
as a smoothing effect on standard error estimates. More information on calculating direct
estimates is available at U.S. Census Bureau (2012) and/or U.S. Census Bureau (2018). For
more information on GVF estimates, refer to the “Generalized Variance Parameters”
section.

Generalized Variance Parameters. While it is possible to estimate the standard error
based on the survey data for each estimate in a report, there are a number of reasons why
this is not done. A presentation of the individual standard errors would be of limited use,
since one could not possibly predict all of the combinations of results that may be of
interest to data users. Additionally, data users have access to CPS microdata files, and it is
impossible to compute in advance the standard error for every estimate one might obtain
from those data sets. Moreover, variance estimates are based on sample data and have
variances of their own. Therefore, some methods of stabilizing these estimates of variance,
for example, by generalizing or averaging over time, may be used to improve their
reliability.

Experience has shown that certain groups of estimates have similar relationships between
their variances and expected values. Modeling or generalizing may provide more stable
variance estimates by taking advantage of these similarities. The GVF is a simple model that
expresses the variance as a function of the expected value of the survey estimate. The
parameters of the GVF are estimated using direct replicate variances. These GVF
parameters provide a relatively easy method to obtain approximate standard errors for
numerous characteristics.

In this source and accuracy statement:

       •   Tables 3 through 5 provide illustrations for calculating standard errors; and
       •   Table 6 provides GVF parameters for characteristics from the September 2023
           supplement.

The basic CPS questionnaire records the race and ethnicity of each respondent. With
respect to race, a respondent can be White, Black, Asian, American Indian and Alaskan
Native (AIAN), Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander (NHOPI), or combinations of two
or more of the preceding. A respondent’s ethnicity can be Hispanic or non-Hispanic,
regardless of race.

The GVF parameters to use in computing standard errors are dependent upon the
race/ethnicity group of interest. Table 2 summarizes the relationship between the
                                                                                                           9

race/ethnicity group of interest and the GVF parameters to use in standard error
calculations.

     Table 2. Estimation Groups of Interest and Generalized Variance Parameters
                                                                  Generalized variance parameters to
            Race/ethnicity group of interest
                                                                   use in standard error calculations
Total population                                                                    Total
White alone, White alone or in combination (AOIC), or
                                                                                   White
White non-Hispanic population
Black alone, Black AOIC, or Black non-Hispanic population                           Black
                                                                   Asian, American Indian, and Alaska
Asian alone, Asian AOIC, or Asian non-Hispanic population          Native (AIAN), Native Hawaiian and
                                                                     Other Pacific Islander (NHOPI)
AIAN alone, AIAN AOIC, or AIAN non-Hispanic population                      Asian, AIAN, NHOPI
NHOPI alone, NHOPI AOIC, or NHOPI non-Hispanic
                                                                            Asian, AIAN, NHOPI
population
Populations from other race groups                                          Asian, AIAN, NHOPI
HispanicA population                                                             HispanicA
Two or more racesB – employment/unemployment and
                                                                                    Black
educational attainment characteristics
Two or more racesB – all other characteristics                              Asian, AIAN, NHOPI
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Current Population Survey, Civic Engagement and Volunteering Supplement,
internal data files.
A   Hispanics may be any race.
B   Two or more races refers to the group of cases self-classified as having two or more races.
Note: The AOIC population for a race group of interest includes people reporting only the race group of
interest (alone) and people reporting multiple race categories including the race group of interest (in
combination).

When calculating standard errors for an estimate of interest from cross-tabulations
involving different characteristics, use the set of GVF parameters for the characteristic that
will give the largest standard error. If the estimate of interest is strictly from basic CPS
data, information and parameters for calculations can be found under “Reliability of
estimates from the CPS” at Bureau of Labor Statistics (2022). If the estimate is using Civic
Engagement and Volunteering supplement data, the GVF parameters will come from the
Civic Engagement and Volunteering supplement GVF table (Table 6).

Standard Errors of Estimated Numbers. The approximate standard error, 𝑠𝑥 , of an
estimated number from this microdata file can be obtained by using the formula:

                                            𝑠𝑥 = √𝑎𝑥 2 + 𝑏𝑥                                               (1)

Here x is the size of the estimate, and a and b are the parameters in Table 6 associated with
the particular type of characteristic.
                                                                                                  10


Illustration 1
Suppose there were 4,481,000 people aged 20 to 24 who volunteered. Table 3 shows how
to use the appropriate parameters from Table 6 and Formula (1) to estimate the standard
error and confidence interval.

              Table 3. Illustration of Standard Errors of Estimated Numbers
       Number of people aged 20 to 24 who volunteered (x)                             4,481,000
       a-parameter (a)                                                               -0.000559
       b-parameter (b)                                                                   12,369
       Standard error                                                                   210,000
       90-percent confidence interval                                    4,136,000 to 4,826,000
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Current Population Survey, Civic Engagement and Volunteering
Supplement, September 2023.

The standard error is calculated as

                     𝑠𝑥 = √−0.000559 × 4,481,0002 + 12,369 × 4,481,000,

which, rounded to the nearest thousand, is 210,000. The 90-percent confidence interval is
calculated as 4,481,000 ± 1.645 × 210,000.

A conclusion that the average estimate derived from all possible samples lies within a
range computed in this way would be correct for roughly 90 percent of all possible
samples.

Standard Errors of Estimated Percentages. The reliability of an estimated percentage,
computed using sample data for both numerator and denominator, depends on both the
size of the percentage and its base. Estimated percentages are relatively more reliable than
the corresponding estimates of the numerators of the percentages, particularly if the
percentages are 50 percent or more. When the numerator and denominator of the
percentage are in different categories, use the parameter from Table 6 as indicated by the
numerator.

The approximate standard error, 𝑠𝑦,𝑝 , of an estimated percentage can be obtained by using
the formula:

                                                  𝑏
                                        𝑠𝑦,𝑝 = √ 𝑝(100 − 𝑝)                                       (2)
                                                  𝑦




Here y is the total number of people, families, households, or unrelated individuals in the
base or denominator of the percentage, p is the percentage 100*x/y (0 ≤ p ≤ 100), and b is
the parameter in Table 6 associated with the characteristic in the numerator of the
percentage.
                                                                                                      11


Illustration 2
Suppose out of 267,400,000 people (ages 16 and up), 23.5 percent participated in a group
or organization. Table 4 shows how to use the appropriate parameters from Table 6 and
Formula (2) to estimate the standard error and confidence interval.

            Table 4. Illustration of Standard Errors of Estimated Percentages
     Percentage of people that participated in a group or organization (p)                     23.5
     Base (y)                                                                         267,400,000
     b-parameter (b)                                                                         7,829
     Standard error                                                                            0.23
     90-percent confidence interval                                                    23.1 to 23.9
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Current Population Survey, Civic Engagement and Volunteering
Supplement, September 2023.

The standard error is calculated as

                                 7,829
                      𝑠𝑦,𝑝 = √            × 23.5 × (100.0 − 23.5) = 0.23
                              267,400,000

and the 90-percent confidence interval for the estimated percentage of people that
participated in a group or organization is from 23.1 to 23.9 percent (i.e., 23.5 ± 1.645 ×
0.23).

Standard Errors of Estimated Differences. The standard error of the difference between
two sample estimates is approximately equal to

                                                        2           2
                                     𝑠|𝑥1 −𝑥2| = √(𝑠𝑥1 ) + (𝑠𝑥2 )                                     (3)

where 𝑠𝑥1 and 𝑠𝑥2 are the standard errors of the estimates, 𝑥1 and 𝑥2 . The estimates can be
numbers, percentages, ratios, etc. This will result in accurate estimates of the standard
error of the same characteristic in two different areas or for the difference between
separate and uncorrelated characteristics in the same area. However, if there is a high
positive (negative) correlation between the two characteristics, the formula will
overestimate (underestimate) the true standard error.

Illustration 3
Suppose that of the 9,865,000 part-time employed men (ages 16 and up), 27.7 percent
volunteer, and of the 17,500,000 part-time employed women (ages 16 and up), 38.0
percent volunteer. Table 5 shows how to use the appropriate parameters from Table 6 and
Formulas (2) and (3) to estimate the standard error and confidence interval.
                                                                                                    12

              Table 5. Illustration of Standard Errors of Estimated Differences
                                                     Men (x1)     Women (x2)    Difference
Percentage of part time workers who volunteer (p)                  27.7             38.0           10.3
Base (y)                                                    9,865,000       17,500,000                -
b-parameter (b)                                                  7,829            6,938               -
Standard error                                                     1.26             0.97           1.59
90-percent confidence interval                             25.6 to 29.8     36.4 to 39.6    7.7 to 12.9
 Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Current Population Survey, Civic Engagement and Volunteering
 Supplement, September 2023.

 The standard error of the difference is calculated as

                                  𝑠|𝑥1−𝑥2| = √1.262 + 0.972 = 1.59

 and the 90-percent confidence interval around the difference is calculated as 10.3 ± 1.645 ×
 1.59. Since this interval does not include zero, we can conclude with 90-percent confidence
 that the percentage of part-time women workers (ages 16 and up) who volunteer is greater
 than the percentage of part-time men workers (ages 16 and up) who volunteer.

 Standard Errors of Quarterly or Yearly Averages. For information on calculating
 standard errors for labor force data from the CPS which involve quarterly or yearly
 averages, please reference Bureau of Labor Statistics (2006).

 Technical Assistance. If you require assistance or additional information, please contact
 the Demographic Statistical Methods Division via e-mail at
 dsmd.source.and.accuracy@census.gov.
                                                                                                                              13

      Table 6. Parameters for Computation of Standard Errors for Civic Engagement and
                       Volunteering Characteristics: September 2023
                                                                                                   Asian, AIAN,
                                 Total                   White                   Black                                     HispanicB
                                                                                                     NHOPIA
Characteristic               a             b         a             b         a             B        a         b           a          b


Total                     -0.000029      7,829    -0.000038      7,829    -0.000356      12,369   -0.000378   10,563   -0.000259   12,369
  Male                    -0.000060      7,829    -0.000069      6,938    -0.000593      9,550    -0.000649   8,713    -0.000441   10,563
  Female                  -0.000051      6,938    -0.000067      6,938    -0.000512      9,550    -0.000601   8,713    -0.000401    9,550

Veterans                  -0.000026      6,938    -0.000029      5,979    -0.000251      8,713    -0.000280   7,829    -0.000200   9,550


Age
  16 years and over       -0.000029      7,829    -0.000038      7,829    -0.000356      12,369   -0.000378   10,563   -0.000259   12,369
  16 to 24                -0.000370      14,581   -0.000431      12,369   -0.002964      17,119   -0.002957   14,581   -0.001497   14,581
    16 to 19              -0.000845      14,581   -0.001164      14,581   -0.006719      17,119   -0.006666   14,581   -0.003302   14,581
    20 to 24              -0.000559      12,369   -0.000766      12,369   -0.005304      17,119   -0.004508   12,369   -0.002739   14,581
  25 years and over       -0.000038      8,713    -0.000044      7,829    -0.000365      10,563   -0.000459   10,563   -0.000325   12,369
    25 to 34              -0.000214      9,550    -0.000243      7,829    -0.001830      12,369   -0.001702   9,550    -0.001090   10,563
    35 to 44              -0.000200      8,713    -0.000242      7,829    -0.001763      10,563   -0.001657   8,713    -0.001362   12,369
    45 to 54              -0.000218      8,713    -0.000287      8,713    -0.002011      10,563   -0.002202   9,550    -0.001352   10,563
    55 to 64              -0.000189      7,829    -0.000239      7,829    -0.001854      9,550    -0.002743   9,550    -0.001802   10,563
    65 to 74              -0.000156      5,979    -0.000213      5,979    -0.001192      6,938    -0.002026   8,713    -0.001402   7,829
  55 years and over       -0.000069      6,938    -0.000085      6,938    -0.000794      8,713    -0.001227   9,550    -0.000834   9,550
  65 years and over       -0.000102      5,979    -0.000123      5,979    -0.001192      6,938    -0.002026   8,713    -0.001560   8,713
  75 years and over       -0.000196      5,979    -0.000293      5,979    -0.001027      5,979    -0.001820   7,829    -0.001402   7,829


Educational Attainment    -0.000046      12,369   -0.000052      10,563   -0.000304      10,563   -0.000378   10,563   -0.000259   12,369
  Less than high school   -0.000033      8,713    -0.000038      7,829    -0.000304      10,563   -0.000443   12,369   -0.000221   10,563
  High school graduate    -0.000029      7,829    -0.000034      6,938    -0.000304      10,563   -0.000312   8,713    -0.000221   10,563
  Some college            -0.000036      9,550    -0.000038      7,829    -0.000304      10,563   -0.000342   9,550    -0.000200   9,550
  College degree          -0.000046      12,369   -0.000052      10,563   -0.000304      10,563   -0.000378   10,563   -0.000259   12,369


Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Current Population Survey, External data from the Civic Engagement and Volunteering
        Supplement, September 2023.
    A AIAN is American Indian and Alaska Native, and NHOPI is Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander.
    B Hispanics may be any race.

    Notes: These parameters are to be applied to the Civic Engagement and Volunteering Supplement data. The Total, White,
             Black, and Asian, AIAN, NHOPI parameters are calculated using the non-Hispanic population, but are to be used
             for both alone and in combination race group estimates. For the group self-classified as having two or more races,
             use the Asian, AIAN, NHOPI parameters for all characteristics except employment, unemployment, and
             educational attainment, in which case use Black parameters. A more detailed discussion on the use of parameters
             for race and ethnicity can be found in the “Generalized Variance Parameters” section.
                                                                                              14

REFERENCES

Brooks, C.A., & Bailar, B.A. (1978). Statistical Policy Working Paper 3 - An Error Profile:
      Employment as Measured by the Current Population Survey. Subcommittee on
      Nonsampling Errors, Federal Committee on Statistical Methodology, U.S.
      Department of Commerce, Washington, DC.
      https://s3.amazonaws.com/sitesusa/wp-
      content/uploads/sites/242/2014/04/spwp3.pdf

Bureau of Labor Statistics. (2006). Household Data (“A” tables, monthly; “D” tables,
      quarterly). https://www.bls.gov/cps/eetech_methods.pdf

Bureau of Labor Statistics. (2014). Redesign of the Sample for the Current Population Survey.
      http://www.bls.gov/cps/sample_redesign_2014.pdf

Bureau of Labor Statistics. (2022). Labor Force Statistics from the Current Population
      Survey. https://www.bls.gov/cps/documentation.htm#reliability

U.S. Census Bureau. (2012). Estimating Current Population Survey (CPS) Person Level
       Supplement Variances Using Replicate Weights Part I: Instructions for Using CPS
       Person Level Supplement Replicate Weights to Calculate Variances.
       https://www2.census.gov/programs-surveys/cps/datasets/2018/supp/PERSON-
       level_Use_of_the_Public_Use_Replicate_Weight_File.doc

U.S. Census Bureau. (2018). Estimating Current Population Survey (CPS) Household-level
       Supplement Variances Using Replicate Weights Part I: Instructions for Using CPS
       Household-level Supplement Replicate Weights to Calculate Variances.
       https://www2.census.gov/programs-surveys/cps/datasets/2018/supp/HH-
       level_Use_of_the_Public_Use_Replicate_Weight_File.doc

U.S. Census Bureau. (2019). Current Population Survey: Design and Methodology. Technical
       Paper 77. Washington, DC: Government Printing Office.
       https://www2.census.gov/programs-surveys/cps/methodology/CPS-Tech-Paper-
       77.pdf

U.S. Census Bureau. (2021). METHODOLOGY FOR THE UNITED STATES POPULATION
       ESTIMATES: VINTAGE 2021 Nation, States, Counties, and Puerto Rico – April 1, 2020,
       to July 1, 2021. https://www2.census.gov/programs-surveys/popest/technical-
       documentation/methodology/2020-2021/methods-statement-v2021.pdf


All online references accessed October 31, 2024.
                                          ATTACHMENT 17

                                            USER NOTES


This section will contain information relevant to the Current Population Survey, September
2023: Civic Engagement and Volunteering Supplement File that becomes available after
the file is released.




                                                  17 1
